still , as I urged our leaving Ireland with such inquietude and impatience , my father thought it best to yield .
if a fire wanted fanning , it could readily be fanned with a newspaper , and as the government grew weaker , I have no doubt that leather and iron acquired durability in proportion , for , in a very short time , there was not a pair of bellows in all Rotterdam that ever stood in need of a stitch or required the assistance of a hammer .
and when they had broken down the frail door they found only this : two cleanly picked human skeletons on the earthen floor , and a number of singular beetles crawling in the shadowy corners .
while I was thinking how I should possibly manage without them , one actually tumbled out of my head , and , rolling down the steep side of the steeple , lodged in the rain gutter which ran along the eaves of the main building .
I am not sure to what limit his knowledge may extend .
&quot; the thick and peculiar mist , or smoke , which distinguishes the Indian Summer , and which now hung heavily over all objects , served , no doubt , to deepen the vague impressions which these objects created .
that which is not matter , is not at all unless qualities are things .
I sought for repose although I did not hope for forgetfulness ; I knew I should be pursued by dreams , but did not dread the frightful one that I really had .
upon the fourth day of the assassination , a party of the police came , very unexpectedly , into the house , and proceeded again to make rigorous investigation of the premises .
&quot; the tone metaphysical is also a good one .
these , the offspring of a later period , stood erect and seemed ready to advance fearlessly into coming time ; while those out worn stragglers , blasted and broke , clung to each other , their weak boughs sighing as the wind buffetted them a weather beaten crew .
what kept him from going with her and Brown Jenkin and the other to the throne of Chaos where the thin flutes pipe mindlessly was the fact that he had seen the name &quot; Azathoth &quot; in the Necronomicon , and knew it stood for a primal evil too horrible for description .
persuading the widow that my connexion with her husband &apos;s &quot; technical matters &quot; was sufficient to entitle me to his manuscript , I bore the document away and began to read it on the London boat .
when I arose trembling , I know not how much later , I staggered into the house and made shocking obeisances before the enshrined amulet of green jade .
and by the shores of the river Zaire there is neither quiet nor silence .
Idris heard of her mother &apos;s return with pleasure .
I say this proudly , but with tears in my eyes for the firm proved themselves the basest of ingrates .
but let us glance at the treatise Ah &quot; ability or inability to conceive , &quot; says Mr. Mill , very properly , &quot; is in no case to be received as a criterion of axiomatic truth . &quot;
&quot; what a place is this that you inhabit , my son &quot; said he , looking mournfully at the barred windows and wretched appearance of the room .
at his nod I took one of the latter and seated myself upon an aged , discoloured gravestone close by the newly uncovered aperture .
no one doubted now that the mystery of this murder would be immediately brought to light .
but although , in one or two instances , Arrests were made which promised elucidation , yet nothing was elicited which could implicate the parties suspected ; and they were discharged forthwith .
festivity , and even libertinism , became the order of the day .
for I am Iranon , who was a Prince in Aira . &quot;
&quot; gaze not on the star , dear , generous friend , &quot; I cried , &quot; read not love in its trembling rays ; look not upon distant worlds ; speak not of the mere imagination of a sentiment .
I am serious in asserting that my breath was entirely gone .
the thing will haunt me , for who can say the extermination is complete , and that analogous phenomena do not exist all over the world ?
before each of the party lay a portion of a skull , which was used as a drinking cup .
if she had been bred in that sphere of life to which by inheritance the delicate framework of her mind and person was adapted , she would have been the object almost of adoration , for her virtues were as eminent as her defects .
or , if this mode of speech offend you , let me say , that my mother , the proud queen , instilled early into me a love of distinction , and all that , if the weakness of my physical nature and my peculiar opinions had not prevented such a design , might have made me long since struggle for the lost inheritance of my race .
I have promised that someone should watch for him and give him instant notice if any new object should appear in sight .
the rope drags , either on land or sea , while the balloon is free ; the latter , consequently , is always in advance , when any progress whatever is made : a comparison , therefore , by means of the compass , of the relative positions of the two objects , will always indicate the course .
in his frenzied strains I could almost see shadowy satyrs and Bacchanals dancing and whirling insanely through seething abysses of clouds and smoke and lightning .
the cat and pigeons seemed to suffer no inconvenience whatsoever .
did he think of this as we journeyed up to town ?
all other art objects I had ever seen either belonged to some known racial or national stream , or else were consciously modernistic defiances of every recognised stream .
it was a freak of fancy in my friend for what else shall I call it ?
I am miserable , and they shall share my wretchedness .
I have frequently wondered if the majority of mankind ever pause to reflect upon the occasionally titanic significance of dreams , and of the obscure world to which they belong .
in the most rugged of wildernesses in the most savage of the scenes of pure Nature there is apparent the art of a Creator ; yet is this art apparent only to reflection ; in no respect has it the obvious force of a feeling .
doubtless you will play the part of the injured wife to admiration .
grapple not now with such thoughts .
for the purpose of relieving M. Valdemar from the mesmeric trance , I made use of the customary passes .
on a sudden , there presented itself to view a church a Gothic cathedral vast , venerable , and with a tall steeple , which towered into the sky .
I lost sight of it entirely ; the balloon passing over the western limb of the ice , and floating away rapidly in the direction of the equator .
the energies of man were before directed to the destruction of his species : they now aim at its liberation and preservation .
Pickman had promised to shew me the place , and heaven knows he had done it .
nor in this matter was I disappointed .
the innumerable blossoms , mingling with those of other trees scarcely less beautiful , although infinitely less majestic , filled the valley with more than Arabian perfumes .
through the fevered town had crept a curse which some said was greater than the plague , and which some whispered was the embodied daemon soul of the plague itself .
the matter of which our rudimental body is composed , is within the ken of the organs of that body ; or , more distinctly , our rudimental organs are adapted to the matter of which is formed the rudimental body ; but not to that of which the ultimate is composed .
Monsieur Maillard , it appeared , in giving me the account of the lunatic who had excited his fellows to rebellion , had been merely relating his own exploits .
the ordinary accounts of this vortex had by no means prepared me for what I saw .
Justine has just returned to us ; and I assure you I love her tenderly .
I again paused , and holding the flambeaux over the mason work , threw a few feeble rays upon the figure within .
in a few minutes we soared over them in fine style ; and Mr. Ainsworth , with the seamen , was surprised at their apparent want of altitude when viewed from the car , the tendency of great elevation in a balloon being to reduce inequalities of the surface below , to nearly a dead level .
restrain your impatience or you may mar what you attempt to alleviate .
should she indeed awake , and see me , and curse me , and denounce the murderer ?
we were assured that , when the name and title of Englishman was the sole patent of nobility , we should all be noble ; that when no man born under English sway , felt another his superior in rank , courtesy and refinement would become the birth right of all our countrymen .
he is dead who called me into being ; and when I shall be no more , the very remembrance of us both will speedily vanish .
Olney walked out along the lesser cliffs to where the great crag leaped insolently up to consort with celestial things , and became very sure that no human feet could mount it or descend it on that beetling southern slope .
much of the material which I correlated will be later published by the American archaeological Society , but there was one box which I found exceedingly puzzling , and which I felt much averse from shewing to other eyes .
in this she did not succeed .
and this fall this rushing annihilation for the very reason that it involves that one most ghastly and loathsome of all the most ghastly and loathsome images of death and suffering which have ever presented themselves to our imagination for this very cause do we now the most vividly desire it .
at some time during this shocking period the cold wind and the screaming must have roused me , for my next impression is of racing madly through inky rooms and corridors and out across the courtyard into the hideous night .
was he murdered by the gang ?
there were no skeletons about , so that departure rather than death was inferred .
yet the sashes were fastened .
his recollections were very confused , but the scene with the black man in the unknown space stood out vividly .
upon my word , she looks better than she did at Paris five years ago .
and she said to me , not many days afterward , tranquilly dying , that , because of what I had done for the comfort of her spirit she would watch over me in that spirit when departed , and , if so it were permitted her return to me visibly in the watches of the night ; but , if this thing were , indeed , beyond the power of the souls in Paradise , that she would , at least , give me frequent indications of her presence , sighing upon me in the evening winds , or filling the air which I breathed with perfume from the censers of the angels .
darkness had no effect upon my fancy , and a churchyard was to me merely the receptacle of bodies deprived of life , which , from being the seat of beauty and strength , had become food for the worm .
these we placed in the cellar during the day , screening the windows with paper and planning to return in the evening for our first vigil .
we appreciate them only in their effects .
my poor cousin , how much you must have suffered I expect to see you looking even more ill than when you quitted Geneva .
besides , here I am , cooped up in a dirty balloon , with some one or two hundred of the canaille , all bound on a pleasure excursion , what a funny idea some people have of pleasure and I have no prospect of touching terra firma for a month at least .
an air of stern , deep , and irredeemable gloom hung over and pervaded all .
he can do nothing but roll over and die .
in this dear intercourse , love , in the guise of enthusiastic friendship , infused more and more of his omnipotent spirit .
and some of them had tall tiaras of that nameless whitish gold metal . . .
is it not , indeed , possible that while a high order of genius is necessarily ambitious , the highest is invariably above that which is termed ambition ?
I trembled with rage and horror , resolving to wait his approach and then close with him in mortal combat .
it was seldom indeed that we escaped , to use an old fashioned phrase , scot free .
the librarian gave me a note of introduction to the curator of the Society , a Miss Anna Tilton , who lived nearby , and after a brief explanation that ancient Gentlewoman was kind enough to pilot me into the closed building , since the hour was not outrageously late .
night fell upon every country , night , sudden , rayless , entire .
thus the brief period of his residence at the university forms an era in its annals , and is characterized by all classes of people appertaining to it or its dependencies as &quot; that very extraordinary epoch forming the domination of the Baron Ritzner von Jung . &quot; then of no particular age , by which I mean that it was impossible to form a guess respecting his age by any data personally afforded .
&quot; when alone , Safie resolved in her own mind the plan of conduct that it would become her to pursue in this emergency .
thereafter he bargained with them and exchanged the free access of his grounds for the exact inwardness of what they did ; larning that their grandfathers got part of their custom from red ancestors and part from an old Dutchman in the time of the States General .
&quot; is my father indeed come ?
there are twenty of these medallions , all containing different questions , to which the magician returns the most suitable and striking answers .
was not that an exceedingly singular thing ?
this was done by fellows who had no pocket handkerchiefs . &apos; &quot; I have before suggested that a genuine blackguard is never without a pocket handkerchief .
when their leaders perceived us drawn out in opposition , they also gave the word to halt , and endeavoured to form their men into some imitation of military discipline .
arousing from the most profound of slumbers , we break the gossamer web of some dream .
the town was full of tumult .
he had not left the manuscript all night , but sat at his table under the electric light turning page after page with shaking hands as fast as he could decipher the cryptic text .
Baudelaire and Huysmans were soon exhausted of thrills , till finally there remained for us only the more direct stimuli of unnatural personal experiences and adventures .
my temper was sometimes violent , and my passions vehement ; but by some law in my temperature they were turned not towards childish pursuits but to an eager desire to learn , and not to learn all things indiscriminately .
there was hope that this second and artificial life might be made perpetual by repetitions of the injection , but we had learned that an ordinary natural life would not respond to the action .
he came in gaily , singing the Tyrolese song of liberty ; noticed me with a gracious nod , and threw himself on a sopha opposite the copy of a bust of the Apollo Belvidere .
his activity was fed in wholesome measure , without either exhaustion or satiety ; his taste and genius found worthy expression in each of the modes human beings have invented to encage and manifest the spirit of beauty ; the goodness of his heart made him never weary of conducing to the well being of his fellow creatures ; his magnificent spirit , and aspirations for the respect and love of mankind , now received fruition ; true , his exaltation was temporary ; perhaps it were better that it should be so .
the watchtower of Athens was besieged by inquirers , each sail eagerly looked out for ; till on the first of May the gallant frigate bore in sight , freighted with treasure more invaluable than the wealth which , piloted from Mexico , the vexed Pacific swallowed , or that was conveyed over its tranquil bosom to enrich the crown of Spain .
here , I thought , is one of those whose joy imparting smiles are bestowed on all but me .
a combustion irresistible , all devouring , omni prevalent , immediate ; the entire fulfilment , in all their minute and terrible details , of the fiery and horror inspiring denunciations of the prophecies of the Holy Book .
while I , not proudly as in days of joy , yet tenderly , and with glad consciousness of the comfort I afforded , drew my trembling girl close to my heart , and tried to ward every painful thought or rough circumstance from her sensitive nature .
might not her mother take advantage of Adrian &apos;s absence to urge her beyond her sufferance , perhaps to entrap her ?
yet he suffered fearful agony ; during the day he was more calm , but at night when I could not be with him he seemed to give the reins to his grief : he often passed his nights either on the floor in my mother &apos;s room , or in the garden ; and when in the morning he saw me view with poignant grief his exhausted frame , and his person languid almost to death with watching he wept ; but during all this time he spoke no word by which I might guess the cause of his unhappiness .
I forced myself to ponder upon the sound of the crescent as it should pass across the garment upon the peculiar thrilling sensation which the friction of cloth produces on the nerves .
but &apos; soon after dark , &apos; is , at least , dark ; and &apos; about dusk &apos; is as certainly daylight .
I snatched from the scrutiny of the world a being whom destiny compelled me to adore , and in the rigorous seclusion of my home , watched with an agonizing anxiety over all which concerned the beloved .
there was Sir positive paradox .
there she beheld her Evelyn lying fever stricken and motionless .
when I came out of the shadows I was in a San Francisco hospital ; brought thither by the captain of the American ship which had picked up my boat in mid ocean .
totally separate and apart , its very material was a mystery ; for the soapy , greenish black stone with its golden or iridescent flecks and striations resembled nothing familiar to geology or mineralogy .
foremost among the living objects were great inky , jellyish monstrosities which flabbily quivered in harmony with the vibrations from the machine .
we shall continue as we have ever done , one heart , one hope , one life . &quot;
my eighth and last speculation has been in the Cat growing way .
his name , as given on the records , was Joe Slater , or Slaader , and his appearance was that of the typical denizen of the Catskill Mountain region ; one of those strange , repellent scions of a primitive colonial peasant stock whose isolation for nearly three centuries in the hilly fastnesses of a little travelled countryside has caused them to sink to a kind of barbaric degeneracy , rather than advance with their more fortunately placed brethren of the thickly settled districts .
I have lately read a singular and somewhat ingenious little book , whose title page runs thus : &quot; L &apos;Homme dans la lvne ou le Voyage Chimerique fait au Monde de la Lvne , nouellement decouvert par Dominique Gonzales , Aduanturier Espagnol , autrem ? t dit le Courier volant .
I therefore postponed operations until about eight the next night , when the arrival of a medical student with whom I had some acquaintance , Mr. Theodore L l , relieved me from farther embarrassment .
Monsieur Maillard , you have really I must confess it you have really made me ashamed of myself &quot; And this was the fact .
the agony of my feelings allowed me no respite ; no incident occurred from which my rage and misery could not extract its food ; but a circumstance that happened when I arrived on the confines of Switzerland , when the sun had recovered its warmth and the earth again began to look green , confirmed in an especial manner the bitterness and horror of my feelings .
the drawing itself became ineffably dear to her .
the second chamber was purple in its ornaments and tapestries , and here the panes were purple .
all through seven lands have I sought thee , and some day shall I reign over thy groves and gardens , thy streets and palaces , and sing to men who shall know whereof I sing , and laugh not nor turn away .
corn we have none , and the crude fruits cannot support us .
it would be of no use , my informant said , to ask the natives anything about the place .
when called upon to play Thomas Hawk , I anointed a sheet of fools cap with the white of a gander &apos;s egg ; then , shredding the thing to be reviewed as I had previously shredded the books , only with more care , so as to get every word separate I threw the latter shreds in with the former , screwed on the lid of the castor , gave it a shake , and so dusted out the mixture upon the egg &apos;d foolscap ; where it stuck .
we stayed a day at Mannheim , and on the fifth from our departure from Strasbourg , arrived at Mainz .
oh many things : there was the moonshine , and the bright stars ; the breezes and the refreshing rains ; there was the whole earth and the sky that covers it : all lovely forms that visited my imagination , all memories of heroism and virtue .
it &apos;ll be ready to sarve ye soon , boy .
one day , whilst sauntering along the streets , I arrested myself in the act of murmuring , half aloud , these customary syllables .
he seemed relieved on seeing me , and would talk with some degree of interest on the affairs of the day .
but they were so systematically arranged , and his arguments so well supported , that though still in appearance incredulous , she began to fear him .
the whole strength of Evadne &apos;s mind was exerted to support the failing spirits of her husband .
the grounds were extensive , and a high and solid brick wall , topped with a bed of mortar and broken glass , encompassed the whole .
I pitied him from the bottom of my heart .
you have your child , your brother , Idris , Adrian &quot; &quot; And you , &quot; cried Perdita , &quot; the writer of that letter . &quot;
far from the shore stands the grey lighthouse , above sunken slimy rocks that are seen when the tide is low , but unseen when the tide is high .
you must nominate me , Lionel ; Ryland , for shame , cannot shew himself ; but you , my friend , will do me this service ?
never before had he , who was born even to the inheritance of the throne of England , never had he asked favour or honour from those now his equals , but who might have been his subjects .
for one thing , the people were more hideous and abnormal than those near the centre of the town ; so that I was several times evilly reminded of something utterly fantastic which I could not quite place .
then he gave a start .
as a last resource , therefore , having got rid of my coat , hat , and boots , I cut loose from the balloon the car itself , which was of no inconsiderable weight , and thus , clinging with both hands to the net work , I had barely time to observe that the whole country , as far as the eye could reach , was thickly interspersed with diminutive habitations , ere I tumbled headlong into the very heart of a fantastical looking city , and into the middle of a vast crowd of ugly little people , who none of them uttered a single syllable , or gave themselves the least trouble to render me assistance , but stood , like a parcel of idiots , grinning in a ludicrous manner , and eyeing me and my balloon askant , with their arms set a kimbo .
it was too good to be normal , and the villagers were afraid .
my companion spoke of the lightness of our cargo , and reminded me of the excellent qualities of our ship ; but I could not help feeling the utter hopelessness of hope itself , and prepared myself gloomily for that death which I thought nothing could defer beyond an hour , as , with every knot of way the ship made , the swelling of the black stupendous seas became more dismally appalling .
yet mine shall not be the submission of abject slavery .
what definite idea can a body attach to such expressions as &quot; methodical Jack o &apos; dandy , &quot; or &quot; a systematical Will o &apos; the wisp &quot; ?
but Monsieur Froissart , he vas von ver big vat you call fool he vas von ver great big donce like yourself for he lef la belle France for come to dis stupide Amerique and ven he get here he went and ave von ver stupide , von ver , ver stupide sonn , so I hear , dough I not yet av ad de plaisir to meet vid him neither me nor my companion , de Madame Stephanie Lalande .
indeed , his behavior disappointed every expectation , and proved little in accordance with the views of many a manoeuvering Mamma ; while his habits and manner , still less than formerly , offered any thing congenial with those of the neighboring aristocracy .
my eyes then fell , as I called to mind the circumstances of a former night , to the spot beneath the glare of the censer where I had seen the faint traces of the shadow .
I now also began to collect the materials necessary for my new creation , and this was to me like the torture of single drops of water continually falling on the head .
&quot; Joe Slater is dead , &quot; came the soul petrifying voice or agency from beyond the wall of sleep .
there was no light , but I knew from the empty space at my right that Tobey was gone , God alone knew whither .
Legrasse had one point in advance of Professor Webb , for several among his mongrel prisoners had repeated to him what older celebrants had told them the words meant .
vitality had not altogether departed , and she was aroused by the caresses of her lover from the lethargy which had been mistaken for death .
thus passionately Perdita ran on .
they elevated me from all littleness of feeling , and although they did not remove my grief , they subdued and tranquillized it .
this sentiment of the worth of my nature supported me when others would have been oppressed , for I deemed it criminal to throw away in useless grief those talents that might be useful to my fellow creatures .
we waited in vain for the arrival of the sixth day that day to me has not arrived to the Swede , never did arrive .
still , as I ascended higher , the valley assumed a more magnificent and astonishing character .
adieu my cousin ; take care of your self ; and , I entreat you , write &quot; Elizabeth Lavenza .
for the most wild , yet most homely narrative which I am about to pen , I neither expect nor solicit belief .
in bringing the body to the shore the fishermen had attached to it a rope ; but none of the excoriations had been effected by this .
&quot; my eyes well , Kate well , Bobby this is a judgment upon me , as you say .
there would be bad doings and a child or two would probably be missing .
we possessed a house in Geneva , and a campagne on Belrive , the eastern shore of the lake , at the distance of rather more than a league from the city .
the people around me saw nothing of all this .
they made buckingham their head quarters , and scouts were sent out to ascertain our situation .
besides nameless rites and human sacrifices there were certain queer hereditary rituals addressed to a supreme elder devil or tornasuk ; and of this Professor Webb had taken a careful phonetic copy from an aged angekok or wizard priest , expressing the sounds in Roman letters as best he knew how .
I have murdered the lovely and the helpless ; I have strangled the innocent as they slept and grasped to death his throat who never injured me or any other living thing .
if I bid St. Eustache call for me at dark , he will be sure not to call before ; but , if I wholly neglect to bid him call , my time for escape will be diminished , since it will be expected that I return the earlier , and my absence will the sooner excite anxiety .
but it might have been long ; for I knew there were demons who took note of my swoon , and who could have arrested the vibration at pleasure .
the evening edition of the paper stated that the greatest excitement still continued in the Quartier St. Roch that the premises in question had been carefully re searched , and fresh examinations of witnesses instituted , but all to no purpose .
conversation , also , soon tended to dispel my sense of strangeness ; and in time I yielded to my yawns and took my turn at slumber .
the scarlet stains upon the body and especially upon the face of the victim , were the pest ban which shut him out from the aid and from the sympathy of his fellow men .
Scissors , the Whig editor , republished a treatise upon &quot; the nature and origin of subterranean noises . &quot;
her tales , however , commanded a wide audience , and were the more readily accepted because the house indeed stood on land once used for burial purposes .
I am writing this under an appreciable mental strain , since by tonight I shall be no more .
and now the first positive effort to think .
being little of a cynic , I had all the sentiments of a dog .
&quot; Eleben &quot; assented the little ones .
he grew deranged through love , and fancied himself possessed of two heads .
the madness and monstrosity lay in the figures in the foreground for Pickman &apos;s morbid art was preëminently one of daemoniac portraiture .
my sensations upon recognising this sign of actual peril were perhaps less rather than more tumultuous because of my previous vague fears .
a boy is sent with the parcel and change .
shortly before the final overthrow of the earth , there were , I well remember , many very successful experiments in what some philosophers were weak enough to denominate the creation of animalculae .
Dr. Torres knew , but the shock killed him .
united to her , cherished in her dear heart , never again shall I know the misery of finding myself alone .
yet each foreign post day she watched for the arrival of letters knew the post mark , and watched me as I read .
its ponderous wings are slowly and musically expanded .
perhaps I should not hope to convey in mere words the unutterable hideousness that can dwell in absolute silence and barren immensity .
that you did combine them I saw by the character of the smile which passed over your lips .
but we were now , in a great measure , rid of these annoyances just as death condemned felons in prison are allowed petty indulgences , forbidden them while their doom is yet uncertain .
do you remember your father ?
I would say more than this , sir , were it not for the fear of giving you offence here the speaker smiled blandly , I would say , sir , that your opinions are not the opinions to be expected from a gentleman . &quot;
as the bus reached a lower level I began to catch the steady note of a waterfall through the unnatural stillness .
the unfortunate inquirer staggered against a wall , a faint cry escaped her &quot; O were you cruel enough , &quot; she exclaimed , &quot; to send him there ? &quot;
so , perhaps , do his companions ; and the difference in the extent of the information obtained , lies not so much in the validity of the inference as in the quality of the observation .
for five entire days and nights during which our only subsistence was a small quantity of jaggeree , procured with great difficulty from the forecastle the hulk flew at a rate defying computation , before rapidly succeeding flaws of wind , which , without equalling the first violence of the Simoom , were still more terrific than any tempest I had before encountered .
the parchment was voluminous , and held only the strange hieroglyphs of an unknown tongue written with an antique reed .
the motion of this latter is thought , of which perception is the first undulation .
let me alone , and I &apos;ll explain it all in a minute .
he is the soul of antique Aegyptus , and bearer of tales from forgotten cities in Meroë and Ophir .
he and his companion entered the cottage , in which they remained for a few minutes , and then departed .
I now made arrangements for my journey , but one feeling haunted me which filled me with fear and agitation .
it would be irrational to suppose that we can .
pursuing these reflections , I thought that if I could bestow animation upon lifeless matter , I might in process of time although I now found it impossible renew life where death had apparently devoted the body to corruption .
I do not choose , however , to commit myself on a theme of such importance , and must refer the reader desirous of information to the &quot; Oratiunculae de Rebus Praeter Veteris , &quot; of Dundergutz .
he bequeathed his widow and orphans to the friendship of his royal master , and felt satisfied that , by this means , their prosperity was better assured in his death than in his life .
it would be barbarous to do more than suggest what had killed Gilman .
this witness volunteered his testimony .
in the frescoed halls of the monarch did he sing , upon a crystal dais raised over a floor that was a mirror , and as he sang he brought pictures to his hearers till the floor seemed to reflect old , beautiful , and half remembered things instead of the wine reddened feasters who pelted him with roses .
you will take her back to Windsor . &quot; &quot; not without you , &quot; I said .
in a hamlet twenty miles away an orgy of fear had followed the bolt which brought me above ground , and a nameless thing had dropped from an overhanging tree into a weak roofed cabin .
but this discovery gives us three new letters , o , u and g , represented by ? and .
I had hitherto attended the schools of Geneva , but my father thought it necessary for the completion of my education that I should be made acquainted with other customs than those of my native country .
all the houses were apparently deserted , and there were occasional gaps where tumbledown chimneys and cellar walls told of buildings that had collapsed .
on one occasion I startled a villager by leading him confidently to a shallow sub cellar , of whose existence I seemed to know in spite of the fact that it had been unseen and forgotten for many generations .
the boat did not seem to sink into the water at all , but to skim like an air bubble upon the surface of the surge .
my dear son , I entreat you never to make such an assertion again . &quot;
what minor evils might arise from the contact were points of elaborate question .
evening papers spoke of a police raid on some curious revellers in a ravine beyond Meadow Hill just before dawn , and mentioned that the white stone there was an object of age long superstitious regard .
his Majesty did not think ; he shuffled .
the lady was dressed in a dark suit and covered with a thick black veil .
&apos;We are perfectly convinced , &apos; it says , &apos; that the body found was that of a murdered female . &apos; &quot; nor is this the sole instance , even in this division of his subject , where our reasoner unwittingly reasons against himself .
when we were together , my friend was always far ahead ; I could comprehend his presence despite the absence of form by a species of pictorial memory whereby his face appeared to me , golden from a strange light and frightful with its weird beauty , its anomalously youthful cheeks , its burning eyes , its Olympian brow , and its shadowing hair and growth of beard .
Unbend your brow ; relax the stern melancholy of your regard ; permit a friend , a sincere , affectionate friend , I will be one , to convey some relief , some momentary pause to your sufferings .
suddenly , as I gazed on him , an idea seized me that this little creature was unprejudiced and had lived too short a time to have imbibed a horror of deformity .
nevertheless , as I saw Dr. Muñoz in that blast of cool air , I felt a repugnance which nothing in his aspect could justify .
my chief acquaintances at Lefferts Corners had been the affable reporters , of whom several still remained to collect final echoes of the tragedy .
some swell guy , too &apos; s father &apos;s a big corp &apos;ration lawyer up in his burg , &apos; n &apos; &apos; s mother &apos;s some lit &apos;ry genius .
and now I leapt up precipitately , and escaped from the hut , before nature could revoke her laws , and inorganic words be breathed in answer from the lips of the departed .
he seemed to be making an effort to reply , but had no longer sufficient volition .
that the true &apos; result of the natural style of gardening is seen rather in the absence of all defects and incongruities , than in the creation of any special wonders or miracles , &apos; is a proposition better suited to the grovelling apprehension of the herd , than to the fervid dreams of the man of genius .
I felt that it was of joy of hope ; but felt also that it had perished in its formation .
my endeavours were directed towards urging them to their usual attention to their crops , and to the acting as if pestilence did not exist .
I believe it to be an intuitive discernment , a quick but never failing power of judgment , a penetration into the causes of things , unequalled for clearness and precision ; add to this a facility of expression and a voice whose varied intonations are soul subduing music .
they loved and sympathized with one another ; and their joys , depending on each other , were not interrupted by the casualties that took place around them .
say something about objectivity and subjectivity .
in each of the five smaller holes , I deposited a canister containing fifty pounds , and in the larger one a keg holding one hundred and fifty pounds , of cannon powder .
at other times I was quickly and impetuously smitten .
but she died ; and with my own hands I bore her to the tomb ; and I laughed with a long and bitter laugh as I found no traces of the first in the channel where I laid the second .
Bazaars abounded ; and in these were displayed rich wares in infinite variety and profusion silks , muslins , the most dazzling cutlery , the most magnificent jewels and gems .
most of the bodies , while roughly bipedal , had a forward slumping , and a vaguely canine cast .
the idea struck my fancy at once .
my immediate sensations are incapable of analysis .
if so , they must be horrors of the mind alone , for in some way the second of April had put a stop to whatever monstrous menace had begun its siege of mankind &apos;s soul .
we rushed amid the crowd that surrounded it .
the desert mountains and dreary glaciers are my refuge .
I turned from his marked , iron countenance to Raymond , whose face , veiled by a smile , would not betray his care ; yet his lips quivered somewhat , and his hand clasped the bench on which he sat , with a convulsive strength that made the muscles start again .
he came now to announce to us the completion of his Essay on the Pericyclical motions of the Earth &apos;s axis , and the precession of the equinoctial points .
I felt almost ready to faint while he had stood there , but I had not betrayed my wakefulness by the slightest motion , although I had heard my own heart beat with violent fear .
in lively terms he demonstrated the extremities to which Constantinople was reduced ; the wasted and haggard , though ferocious appearance of the troops ; famine and pestilence was at work for them , he observed , and the infidels would soon be obliged to take refuge in their only hope submission .
the shriek , I said , was my own in a dream .
how is that ? &quot; &quot; yes , &quot; he replied , &quot; there was , occasionally , very great danger indeed .
in about a week after the arrival of Elizabeth &apos;s letter we returned to Geneva .
now that I am telling it anyway , lest the brooding make me a maniac , I wish I had never concealed it .
Gilman must see a specialist sooner or later , but not just now , when all the papers were full of this kidnapping business .
it was hope the hope that triumphs on the rack that whispers to the death condemned even in the dungeons of the Inquisition .
the case of St. Eustache must be re examined .
often I played in the gardens and waded in the pools , and lay and dreamed among the pale flowers under the trees .
he turned very pale , but agreed to help me , and decided that it would now be safe to rent the house .
they from the air told me at Sabbat that it will be years before I can clear off the earth , and I guess grandfather will be dead then , so I shall have to learn all the angles of the planes and all the formulas between the Yr and the Nhhngr .
this imperfect companionship , and our masquerade of union , are strangely dear to me .
no one recalled their identity , and they were soon forgotten by the many .
that very night , while yet full of gratitude and good resolves , this whole sum , and its amount doubled , was lost at the gaming table .
&quot; I am sorry very sorry for we shall have to try it by ourselves . &quot;
it is more than probable that I am not understood ; but I fear , indeed , that it is in no manner possible to convey to the mind of the merely general reader , an adequate idea of that nervous intensity of interest with which , in my case , the powers of meditation not to speak technically busied and buried themselves , in the contemplation of even the most ordinary objects of the universe .
but there is no wind throughout the heaven .
when , in the course of his composition , he arrived at a break in his subject which would naturally require a pause , or a point , he would be exceedingly apt to run his characters , at this place , more than usually close together .
whether it escaped the flames by good fortune or by bad , yet remains to be seen .
at the present moment having just lighted a faint oil lamp he looked nervous , and before I knew it he was casting all his magical books into a fireplace on the window side of the room where the wall slanted sharply which I had not noticed before .
why would they not be gone ?
now she sedulously put herself out of the question , sacrificing even her anxiety for his health and welfare to her resolve not to oppose any of his desires .
I noticed idly that it did not seem to be bricked up , and that a heavy disc of wood formed the apparent cover .
he hoped the electric lights would not go out .
Woodville was the son of a poor clergyman and had received a classical education .
but these horrors took him only to the edge of reality , and were not of the true dream country he had known in youth ; so that at fifty he despaired of any rest or contentment in a world grown too busy for beauty and too shrewd for dream .
amid these hushed throngs I followed my voiceless guides ; jostled by elbows that seemed preternaturally soft , and pressed by chests and stomachs that seemed abnormally pulpy ; but seeing never a face and hearing never a word .
the men of Teloth are dark and stern , and dwell in square houses , and with frowns they asked the stranger whence he had come and what were his name and fortune .
it hardly preserved the appearance of an inhabited city ; grass sprung up thick in the streets ; the squares were weed grown , the houses were shut up , while silence and loneliness characterized the busiest parts of the town .
what can I say that will enable you to understand the depth of my sorrow ?
it would be hard , the youth implied , to form any real conclusions regarding such a matter ; since one never came to know the natives personally no matter how long one might live in Innsmouth .
what wonder , that this year , when as we are told , its virulence is unexampled in Asia , that it should have occasioned double havoc in that city ?
she had drifted somewhat under the keel of the vessel , and her being out of sight occasioned the delay in finding her .
I had been accustomed to regard the editor of the &quot; Gad Fly &quot; as something superhuman ; but Mr. Crab soon disabused me of that idea .
I still fell with horrible rapidity , and was now not more than half a mile from the surface .
Klenze and I did not like these displays of peasant ignorance , and severely reprimanded the men , particularly Müller .
Perdita rested on his restored society , on his love , his hopes and fame , even as a Sybarite on a luxurious couch ; every thought was transport , each emotion bathed as it were in a congenial and balmy element .
he was the inventor of self moving fans , wind sails , and ventilators .
but no one supposes her to have been drowned ; and , dying before being thrown into the river , she might have been found floating at any period afterwards whatever .
light and darkness were struggling together , and the orient was streaked by roseate and golden rays .
it is of vast dimensions , containing more than , cubic feet of gas ; but as coal gas was employed in place of the more expensive and inconvenient hydrogen , the supporting power of the machine , when fully inflated , and immediately after inflation , is not more than about pounds .
there was so much ancient lore in that Street , that the past could not easily be forgotten .
they have encored his effusion , and do you hear ? he is singing it over again .
Horreur his Majesty does not fence mais il joue how happy a thought but his Grace had always an excellent memory .
as I said before , everybody has heard of me .
after some hours he revived , recognized individuals of his acquaintance , and , in broken sentences spoke of his agonies in the grave .
counting the parties so far glimpsed , as well as those presumably covering other roads , the number of my pursuers must be strangely large for a town as depopulated as Innsmouth .
the house was and for that matter still is of a kind to attract the attention of the curious .
Jervas Hyde should never share the sad fate of Palinurus As the phantom of the burning house faded , I found myself screaming and struggling madly in the arms of two men , one of whom was the spy who had followed me to the tomb .
commencing at the right ear , it swept with a terrific chasm to the left the short pendants which she wore in either auricle continually bobbing into the aperture .
his mother , the Lady Mary , followed him quickly after .
every man &quot; voted , &quot; as they called it that is to say meddled with public affairs until at length , it was discovered that what is everybody &apos;s business is nobody &apos;s , and that the &quot; Republic &quot; so the absurd thing was called was without a government at all .
he rose , he said , to speak in favour of the honourable member &apos;s motion , with one slight amendment subjoined .
the muffled beat of tom toms was now faintly audible far , far ahead ; and a curdling shriek came at infrequent intervals when the wind shifted .
it was very strange , but as the riders went on they seemed to gallop back through Time ; for whenever they passed through a village in the twilight they saw only such houses and villages as Chaucer or men before him might have seen , and sometimes they saw knights on horseback with small companies of retainers .
I called aloud &quot; Fortunato &quot; No answer .
I whispered to myself in a muttering voice &quot; The sound is the same as that which I heard in my dream .
let us suppose that Socrates , or Shakespear , or Rousseau had been seized with despair and died in youth when they were as young as I am ; do you think that we and all the world should not have lost incalculable improvement in our good feelings and our happiness thro &apos; their destruction .
to give up their pleasure grounds to the agriculturist , to diminish sensibly the number of horses kept for the purposes of luxury throughout the country , were means obvious , but unpleasing .
if you will observe the MS. , in the present instance , you will easily detect five such cases of unusual crowding .
he was occasionally occupied in thrumming a guitar , and seemed ennuye to the very death , as at intervals he gave directions for the recovery of his child .
the maniac caught his glance , and turned his eye on him one has heard of the gaze of the rattle snake , which allures the trembling victim till he falls within his jaws .
it was probably from him that some of the wildest popular whispers and delusions were derived .
I believe that most people in my situation would have acted in the same manner .
suddenly a heavy storm of rain descended .
he hastened to her sick room ; she lay , her cheeks burning with fever , yet her eyes were closed and she was seemingly senseless .
I perceived , too , that the gallant soldier preferred topics of philosophical interest , and that he delighted , especially , in commenting upon the rapid march of mechanical invention .
especially did he object to my preoccupation with the mystical and the unexplained ; for although believing in the supernatural much more fully than I , he would not admit that it is sufficiently commonplace for literary treatment .
I fancied that I discerned objects in the temple objects both stationary and moving and seemed to hear again the unreal chant that had floated to me when first I awaked .
as our predominant character is , we will commence by assuming it as the e of the natural alphabet .
even the town mathematician confessed that he could make nothing of so dark a problem .
nor did I hesitate to believe that the phrases , &quot; forty one degrees and thirteen minutes , &apos; and &apos; northeast and by north , &apos; were intended as directions for the levelling of the glass .
was she to cease to love ?
&quot; marvellous clever man &quot; said the Prince .
&quot; certainly not ; but we did better we examined the rungs of every chair in the hotel , and , indeed the jointings of every description of furniture , by the aid of a most powerful microscope .
the free and happy peasant , unshackled by the Austrian , bears the double harvest to the garner ; and the refined citizens rear without dread the long blighted tree of knowledge in this garden of the world .
and most marvellous of all , what deep and more than natural linkage of dates was this which gave a malign and now undeniable significance to the various turns of events so carefully noted by my uncle ?
many of the most energetic in the search were relaxing their exertions , and yielding to a gloomy sorrow .
&quot; I soon perceived that although the stranger uttered articulate sounds and appeared to have a language of her own , she was neither understood by nor herself understood the cottagers .
I took courage , and looked once again upon the scene .
a being whom I myself had formed , and endued with life , had met me at midnight among the precipices of an inaccessible mountain .
but she would not be put off ; secure of his unaltered love , she was willing to undertake any labour , use any entreaty , to dispel his anger .
Carter vaguely understood that he would find within it some key to the lost gate of dreams , but of where and how to use it his grandfather had told him nothing .
I selected my street crossing , in the first place , with great deliberation , and I never put down a broom in any part of the town but that .
ghastly and terrible was that dead , stairless cylinder of rock ; black , ruined , and deserted , and sinister with startled bats whose wings made no noise .
he was a menacing military figure who talked without moving his lips and whose voice seemed almost ventriloquially connected with an immense black case he carried .
if only one flower , we seek for nothing farther what then if two or three , or more ?
so far , we have only reconnoitred the field of investigation ; but it will be strange indeed if a comprehensive survey , such as I propose , of the public prints , will not afford us some minute points which shall establish a direction for inquiry . &quot;
his heart , he knew not why prognosticated misfortune ; he had not heard from her again ; he feared she might be worse and this fear made him impatient and restless for the moment of beholding her once more stand before him arrayed in health and beauty ; for a sinister voice seemed always to whisper to him , &quot; You will never more behold her as she was . &quot;
he shook his head at Clos de Vougeot , and told , with his eyes shut , the difference between Sherry and Amontillado .
the revulsion of thought passed like keen steel to my heart .
your dear mother Alas , Victor I now say , Thank God she did not live to witness the cruel , miserable death of her youngest darling &quot; Come , Victor ; not brooding thoughts of vengeance against the assassin , but with feelings of peace and gentleness , that will heal , instead of festering , the wounds of our minds .
here , trink dis , like a goot veller , und don &apos;t gry now don &apos;t &quot; hereupon the Angel of the Odd replenished my goblet which was about a third full of port with a colorless fluid that he poured from one of his hand bottles .
V. This , probably , is because you have no sufficiently generic conception of the term &quot; substance &quot; itself .
here , however , a new trouble developed ; for the ship failed to respond to our direction in spite of all that the mechanics could do .
I had often made depredations on these preserves ; and the neglected state of the property facilitated my incursions .
we crossed the ice , therefore , and ascended the opposite rock .
&quot; then &apos;s the time Obed he begun a cursin &apos; at the folks fer bein &apos; dull sheep an &apos; prayin &apos; to a Christian heaven as didn &apos;t help &apos; em none .
a moral tempest had wrecked our richly freighted vessel , and we , remnants of the diminished crew , were aghast at the losses and changes which we had undergone .
resolutely shake off the wretchedness that this first misfortune in early life must occasion you .
again he was silent , and after a pause turned to me laughingly .
but these jests , and others of a similar nature , had evidently produced , at no time , any effect upon the cachinnatory muscles of the tar .
folks as had took to the water gen &apos;rally come back a good deal to visit , so &apos;s a man ud often be a talkin &apos; to his own five times great grandfather , who &apos;d left the dry land a couple o &apos; hundred years or so afore .
there it lay in the gutter just under my nose , and the airs it gave itself would have been ridiculous had they not been disgusting .
but his next whisper found me still held inert in the chains of stark horror .
surely the imaginative blacks had made the most of whatever events might lie behind the extravagant legendry .
my convictions , or I forget myself , were in no manner acted upon by the ideal , nor was any tincture of the mysticism which I read to be discovered , unless I am greatly mistaken , either in my deeds or in my thoughts .
that summit was undeniably a centre from which the lines or rows of points radiated indefinitely and irregularly , as if the unwholesome Martense mansion had thrown visible tentacles of terror .
those of his successors in each branch of natural philosophy with whom I was acquainted appeared even to my boy &apos;s apprehensions as tyros engaged in the same pursuit .
now my desires were complied with , and it would , indeed , have been folly to repent .
look at me zee I am te Angel ov te Odd . &quot; &quot; and odd enough , too , &quot; I ventured to reply ; &quot; but I was always under the impression that an angel had wings . &quot;
a few events of this kind roused the fiery nature of the Irish ; and they attacked the invaders .
but he neither answered me nor abated the frenzy of his unutterable music , while all through the garret strange currents of wind seemed to dance in the darkness and babel .
exhaustion succeeded to the extreme fatigue both of body and of mind which I had endured .
not for centuries had any man recalled its vital substance or known where to find it , but this book was very old indeed .
these were my first reflections , but I soon learned that Mr. Kirwin had shown me extreme kindness .
gentleman indeed I made up my mind at once , either to get a written apology from the &quot; Daddy Long Legs , &quot; or to call it out .
a careful investigation rendered it evident that she had revived within two days after her entombment ; that her struggles within the coffin had caused it to fall from a ledge , or shelf to the floor , where it was so broken as to permit her escape .
under one arm he carried a huge chapeau de bras , and under the other a fiddle nearly five times as big as himself .
beyond the scarred trunks in the background , illumined by faint flashes of filtered lightning , rose the damp ivied stones of the deserted mansion , while somewhat nearer was the abandoned Dutch garden whose walks and beds were polluted by a white , fungous , foetid , overnourished vegetation that never saw full daylight .
not only did they fail to correspond with any known element , but they did not even fit the vacant places reserved for probable elements in the periodic system .
at that moment Clara flew towards me ; clasping my knee she cried , &quot; make haste back , uncle Dear uncle , I have such fearful dreams ; I dare not tell my mother .
after a week of debate it was sent to Miskatonic University , together with the deceased &apos;s collection of strange books , for study and possible translation ; but even the best linguists soon saw that it was not likely to be unriddled with ease .
thus there was a kind of haste and desperation in our last daylight canvass of the horror visited hamlet ; a hamlet now deserted because of the squatters &apos; fears .
he would travel leagues to follow up a furtive village tale of abnormal wonder , and once went into the desert of Araby to seek a nameless City of faint report , which no man has ever beheld .
in this I so far succeeded as to determine upon the experiment of losing blood .
his voice , if queer , was at least soothing ; and I could not even perceive that he breathed as the fluent sentences rolled urbanely out .
in the mean time the cannon roared ; the music lifted up its enlivening voice at intervals ; and we on the highest of the mounds I mentioned , too far off to observe the fallen sheaves which death gathered into his storehouse , beheld the regiments , now lost in smoke , now banners and staves peering above the cloud , while shout and clamour drowned every sound .
during the forenoon he passed between shores of a tranquil and domestic beauty , on which grazed innumerable sheep , their white fleeces spotting the vivid green of rolling meadows .
I muttered a hurried prayer to God , and thought all was over .
you have been sadly visited ; nor do I wonder that a feeling akin to insanity should drive you to bitter and unreasonable imaginings .
three days ago , the anniversary of our meeting ; and , alas of our eternal seperation , after a day of killing emotion , I caused myself to be led once more to behold the face of nature .
the eyes , before invisible , now wore an energetic and human expression , while they gleamed with a fiery and unusual red ; and the distended lips of the apparently enraged horse left in full view his gigantic and disgusting teeth .
I cannot listen to you .
he was a sailor , evidently , a tall , stout , and muscular looking person , with a certain dare devil expression of countenance , not altogether unprepossessing .
I visited New Orleans , talked with Legrasse and others of that old time raiding party , saw the frightful image , and even questioned such of the mongrel prisoners as still survived .
I &apos;m not sure that I could find it again myself not that I &apos;d ever try , even in broad daylight Yes , I do know , or am afraid I know , why he maintained it .
just one year to day , as I live let me see yes this is October the tenth .
&quot; why , massa , taint worf while for to git mad about de matter Massa Will say noffin at all aint de matter wid him but den what make him go about looking dis here way , wid he head down and he soldiers up , and as white as a gose ?
in accordance with these ideas , I did not think it worth while to encumber myself with more provisions than would be sufficient for a period of forty days .
he was haunted by the fear of causing the death of one or other of the beings implicated in these events ; and he could not persuade himself to undertake to direct the course of events , lest , ignorant of the land he traversed , he should lead those attached to the car into irremediable ruin .
no one move in chess necessarily follows upon any one other .
&quot; that is ultra violet . &quot;
the crystal water welled up against the clean granite , or the unblemished moss , with a sharpness of outline that delighted while it bewildered the eye .
it is the history of a young person who goes to sleep under the clapper of a church bell , and is awakened by its tolling for a funeral .
called it the plague when folks come in an &apos; faound haff our people missin &apos; . . .
the sailor drew a long breath , with the air of a man relieved of some intolerable burden , and then replied , in an assured tone : &quot; I have no way of telling but he can &apos;t be more than four or five years old .
there &apos;s nothing goes down so well , especially with the help of a little Latin .
&quot; let us go , nevertheless .
besides , I had a contempt for the uses of modern natural philosophy .
this has been already too much an object for the scorn for the horror for the detestation of my race .
may we hope for a personal interview ?
our children , freed from the bondage of winter , bounded before us ; pursuing the deer , or rousing the pheasants and partridges from their coverts .
&quot; nay , pardon me , &quot; he replied ; &quot; I have no right to command or reproach ; but my life hangs on your departure and speedy return .
she whom I loved in youth , and of whom I now pen calmly and distinctly these remembrances , was the sole daughter of the only sister of my mother long departed .
let us ensconce ourselves in the vestibule of the sanctuary ; he will be here anon .
presently I saw the head slowly and slightly change its position ; and soon I became convinced that the lady , while pretending to look at the stage was , in fact , attentively regarding myself .
he shewed me all the paintings and drawings he had about ; including some pen and ink sketches that would , I verily believe , have got him kicked out of the club if many of the members had seen them .
&quot; nobody can ever keep track of these people , and state school officials and census men have a devil of a time .
he had strong hopes of now recapturing the brute , as it could scarcely escape from the trap into which it had ventured , except by the rod , where it might be intercepted as it came down .
the separation from my Idris was painful but necessity reconciled us to it in some degree : necessity and the hope of saving Raymond , and restoring him again to happiness and Perdita .
poverty , dirt , and squalid misery characterized its appearance .
not the least usual error , in investigations such as this , is the limiting of inquiry to the immediate , with total disregard of the collateral or circumstantial events .
he intended to leave his daughter under the care of a confidential servant , to follow at her leisure with the greater part of his property , which had not yet arrived at Leghorn .
to speculate was futile .
when I run over the frightful catalogue of my sins , I cannot believe that I am the same creature whose thoughts were once filled with sublime and transcendent visions of the beauty and the majesty of goodness .
such a man , I considered , could not fail to be aware of the ordinary policial modes of action .
seems the other islanders had got wind o &apos; what was goin &apos; on , an &apos; had took matters into their own hands .
he grasped my hand with a nervous empressement which alarmed me and strengthened the suspicions already entertained .
this I directed my wife to make up as soon as possible , and gave her all requisite information as to the particular method of proceeding .
Gilman awakened in his bed , drenched by a cold perspiration and with a smarting sensation in his face , hands , and feet .
her husband became bankrupt , and then in a tumult and threatened massacre on the part of the Turks , they were obliged to fly at midnight , and reached in an open boat an English vessel under sail , which brought them immediately to this island .
the odor of the sharp steel forced itself into my nostrils .
now his death has crowned his life , and to the end of time it will be remembered , that he devoted himself , a willing victim , to the glory of Greece .
around them , on every part of the deck , lay scattered mathematical instruments of the most quaint and obsolete construction .
what new crotchet possessed his excitable brain ?
the troopers were more sceptical ; including the mansion only casually in their investigations , and dropping it altogether when they found it thoroughly deserted .
the other gave name to the most important of the exact sciences , and was a great man in a great way I may say , indeed , in the very greatest of ways .
&quot; as I says , &apos; tis queer haow picters sets ye thinkin &apos; .
I was still rapidly ascending , and my barometer gave a present altitude of three and three quarter miles .
four of them reeled , one fainted , and two were shaken into a frantic cry which the mad cacophony of the orgy fortunately deadened .
I took their word for all that they averred , and I became their disciple .
it was toward the close of the fifth or sixth month of his seclusion , and while the pestilence raged most furiously abroad , that the Prince Prospero entertained his thousand friends at a masked ball of the most unusual magnificence .
William the conqueror , finding it in an abbey niche where the pious family of Alcuin had placed it believing it to be the skull of a saint who had miraculously annihilated the Lombards by his prayers , did reverence to its osseous antiquity ; and even the rough soldiers of Cromwell , upon destroying Ballylough Abbey in Ireland in it having been secretly transported thither by a devout Papist in , upon Henry VIII &apos;s dissolution of the English monasteries , declined to offer violence to a relic so venerable .
in an eternal separation only can either of us hope for dignity and propriety of action .
there have been assassinations at all hours .
the tale of Inspector Legrasse .
that hour passed , the sun mounted high in the heavens , but the cottagers did not appear .
his head was bowed down upon his hands , and he pored , with a fiery unquiet eye , over a paper which I took to be a commission , and which , at all events , bore the signature of a monarch .
he nearly fainted as he gazed .
for it is of old rumour that the soul of the devil bought hastes not from his charnel clay , but fats and instructs the very worm that gnaws ; till out of corruption horrid life springs , and the dull scavengers of earth wax crafty to vex it and swell monstrous to plague it .
&quot; &quot; Froissart &quot; said I , beginning to faint , &quot; why , surely you don &apos;t say Moissart , and Voissart , and Croissart , and Froissart ? &quot;
how lovely is devotion Here was a youth , royally sprung , bred in luxury , by nature averse to the usual struggles of a public life , and now , in time of danger , at a period when to live was the utmost scope of the ambitious , he , the beloved and heroic Adrian , made , in sweet simplicity , an offer to sacrifice himself for the public good .
the earth was trampled , the bushes were broken , and there was every evidence of a struggle .
and then , because that nightmare &apos;s position barred me from the stone staircase down which we had come , I flung myself into the oily underground river that bubbled somewhere to the caves of the sea ; flung myself into that putrescent juice of earth &apos;s inner horrors before the madness of my screams could bring down upon me all the charnel legions these pest gulfs might conceal .
but his affection for me at length overcame his dislike of learning , and he has permitted me to undertake a voyage of discovery to the land of knowledge . &quot;
my favourite vision was that when I grew up I would leave my aunt , whose coldness lulled my conscience , and disguised like a boy I would seek my father through the world .
it would have been useless to have opposed these impulses by barriers , which would only have driven those actuated by them to more pernicious indulgencies .
upon leaving him on the night of our adventure , he solicited me , in what I thought an urgent manner , to call upon him very early the next morning .
&quot; good heavens &quot; ejaculated my host , drawing back his chair abruptly , and uplifting his hands .
no detail was missing .
down its moss covered slopes my first steps of infancy were taken , and around its grotesquely gnarled oak trees my first fancies of boyhood were woven .
he said nothing , however , and his conduct greatly astonished me ; yet I thought it prudent not to exacerbate the growing moodiness of his temper by any comment .
there in the dark , upon that riven tomb by the deserted house , we talked on about the &quot; unnamable &quot; , and after my friend had finished his scoffing I told him of the awful evidence behind the story at which he had scoffed the most .
that night I slept but little , and the next day I made for myself a pack containing food and water , preparatory to an overland journey in search of the vanished sea and possible rescue .
what became of the editor of the &quot; Gad Fly , &quot; after the publication of my criticism on his &quot; Oil of Bob , &quot; it is somewhat difficult to determine .
yet in the midst of desolation Adrian had preserved order ; and each one continued to live according to law and custom human institutions thus surviving as it were divine ones , and while the decree of population was abrogated , property continued sacred .
Barzai forged very far ahead , and seemed despite his age to climb more easily than Atal ; fearing not the steepness that began to grow too great for any save a strong and dauntless man , nor pausing at wide black chasms that Atal scarce could leap .
I believe that I bore an individual attachment to every tree in our park ; every animal that inhabited it knew me and I loved them .
these windows were of stained glass whose color varied in accordance with the prevailing hue of the decorations of the chamber into which it opened .
what made them scream so loud ? . . .
if these feelings had not found an imaginary gratification , the appearance of the city had yet in itself sufficient beauty to obtain our admiration .
&quot; the deuce knows what they eat , Thurber , &quot; he grinned , &quot; for those archaic tunnels touched graveyard and witch den and sea coast .
he purposely kept out of my way to avoid giving me the introduction .
kinder like Injuns , I guess , even ef they be in Afriky .
West liked to think that before his recent disappearance , but there were times when he could not ; for it was queer that we both had the same hallucination .
I admired his justice and patience .
we had had three children ; one , the second in age , died while I was in Greece .
my fears for Adrian were ceaseless ; August had come ; and the symptoms of plague encreased rapidly in London .
soon afterwards we turned to go home , and on the way met Lieutenant G .
the stagnant waters , lately quite devoid of animal life , now teemed with a horde of slimy enormous frogs which piped shrilly and incessantly in tones strangely out of keeping with their size .
&quot; at ten o &apos;clock , feeling sleepy , I determined to lie down for the rest of the night ; but here a difficulty presented itself , which , obvious as it may appear , had escaped my attention up to the very moment of which I am now speaking .
on the upper stone was discovered a white petticoat ; on the second , a silk scarf .
the indignation of Mr. Bullet head at these scandalous insinuations , I shall not attempt to describe .
many females , for example , whose age could not have been less than seventy were bedecked with a profusion of jewelry , such as rings , bracelets , and earrings , and wore their bosoms and arms shamefully bare .
to and fro in the seven chambers there stalked , in fact , a multitude of dreams .
to read were futile to write , vanity indeed .
I knew not which to believe , yet longed more and more to cross forever into the unknown land ; for doubt and secrecy are the lure of lures , and no new horror can be more terrible than the daily torture of the commonplace .
with the algebraists , however , who are Pagans themselves , the &apos; Pagan fables &apos; are believed , and the inferences are made , not so much through lapse of memory , as through an unaccountable addling of the brains .
you will observe that the stories told are all about money seekers , not about money finders .
a mind of moderate capacity which closely pursues one study must infallibly arrive at great proficiency in that study ; and I , who continually sought the attainment of one object of pursuit and was solely wrapped up in this , improved so rapidly that at the end of two years I made some discoveries in the improvement of some chemical instruments , which procured me great esteem and admiration at the university .
a time will come but I must not and cannot think Let me pray that , if I do not survive this manuscript , my executors may put caution before audacity and see that it meets no other eye .
so as he climbed the ladder I went to the levers , and allowing proper time intervals operated the machinery which sent him to his death .
such a quest demands strange materials , among them fresh human bodies ; and in order to keep supplied with these indispensable things one must live quietly and not far from a place of informal interment .
I tell you , I have struck depths that your little brain can &apos;t picture I have seen beyond the bounds of infinity and drawn down daemons from the stars . . . .
my eyes , bewitched by the glassy orbs which stared loathsomely into them , refused to close ; though they were mercifully blurred , and shewed the terrible object but indistinctly after the first shock .
darkness gathered round ; the objects about me became indistinct , I descended from my station , and with difficulty guided my horse , so as to avoid the slain .
I awoke , and my yesternight &apos;s thoughts were as a dream .
Armitage had an idea that the alphabet might be something esoterically used by certain forbidden cults which have come down from old times , and which have inherited many forms and traditions from the wizards of the Saracenic world .
&quot; them things liked human sacrifices .
on a platform erected beneath the terrace , a number of the younger part of the assembly were dancing .
Madame Deluc testified that she keeps a roadside inn not far from the bank of the river , opposite the Barrière du Roule .
the truth at length flashed upon me .
with every effort to cast it off , this love clings closer , this guilty love more unnatural than hate , that withers your hopes and destroys me for ever .
we felt that they were not the tyrants to rule our lot according to their caprice , but the agents and creators of all the many delights which we enjoyed .
my house was literally besieged from morning till night , so that I began to rave , and foam , and fret like a caged tiger against the bars of his enclosure .
he had been walking to and fro in the marble hall of the seraglio ; his very lips were pale with rage , while , quivering , they shaped his angry words his eyes shot fire his gestures seemed restrained by their very vehemence .
it has weighed on my spirits ever since .
Gorgon and Centaur , dragon and iron hoofed lion , vast sea monster and gigantic Hydra , were but types of the strange and appalling accounts brought to London concerning our invaders .
&quot; man , &quot; I cried , &quot; how ignorant art thou in thy pride of wisdom cease ; you know not what it is you say . &quot;
the same yearning of this warm , panting heart , that has made me in written words record my vagabond youth , my serene manhood , and the passions of my soul , makes me now recoil from further delay .
there &apos;s plenty of reason , God knows , and I fancy I &apos;m lucky to be sane at all .
day by day we are forced to believe this .
preparations were made for the event , congratulatory visits were received , and all wore a smiling appearance .
his sensibility and courtesy fascinated every one .
as soon as they forced an entrance , they reclosed the door , to keep out the crowd , which collected very fast , notwithstanding the lateness of the hour .
the king had , in compliance with her exactions , cast off his old friends , but he had acquired no new ones under her guidance .
for a moment my brain reeled both from sheer hopelessness and from a rapid increase in the omnipresent fishy odour .
if this was accident , it was not the accident of a gang .
the exhibiter will , if requested , roll the machine to any portion of the room , suffer it to remain altogether on any designated spot , or even shift its location repeatedly during the progress of a game .
the time would be easy to know , for then mankind would have become as the Great Old Ones ; free and wild and beyond good and evil , with laws and morals thrown aside and all men shouting and killing and revelling in joy .
the nurses &apos; attentions were continual .
attended only by my servant , I dug a deep grave for her at the foot of the tree , and without disturbing her warrior shroud , I placed her in it , heaping stones upon the grave .
&quot; from what I have already observed , &quot; said Mr. Ellison , &quot; you will understand that I reject the idea , here expressed , of &apos; recalling the original beauty of the country.&apos;
rather would one have said they came from the pit itself , had not their source been so unmistakably the altar stone on the peak .
what of all this and of those hints of old Castro about the sunken , star born Old Ones and their coming reign ; their faithful cult and their mastery of dreams ?
well , as I was in the very act of crumpling it up , my glance fell upon the sketch at which you had been looking , and you may imagine my astonishment when I perceived , in fact , the figure of a death &apos;s head just where , it seemed to me , I had made the drawing of the beetle .
then , for weeks , all was void , and black , and silent , and Nothing became the universe .
here he took cautiously hold of the extreme end of the string , and , maintaining the insect as far from his person as circumstances would permit , prepared to ascend the tree .
I had done a deed what was it ?
these latter being tied by the leg , to prevent their escape , were busily employed in picking up some grains of rice scattered for them in the bottom of the car .
on no one spot of its surface could I put my finger and say , here is safety .
I made up my mind , of course , that the box and contents would never get farther north than the studio of my misanthropic friend , in chambers Street , New York .
&quot; it is well , &quot; said Adrian , &quot; to prate of war in these pleasant shades , and with much ill spent oil make a show of joy , because many thousand of our fellow creatures leave with pain this sweet air and natal earth .
I know not where I was born , save that the castle was infinitely old and infinitely horrible ; full of dark passages and having high ceilings where the eye could find only cobwebs and shadows .
taking , now , the tape measure from the nearest point of the trunk to the peg , as before , and continuing the extension in a straight line to the distance of fifty feet , a spot was indicated , removed , by several yards , from the point at which we had been digging .
and the chin , with its dimples , as in health , might it not be hers ?
&quot; something of that kind .
do not behold him cannot say that I perceive him . &quot;
&quot; I know it , &quot; I replied , &quot; and I am going to see in what condition the poor fellow is . &quot;
my impression is of a small seaport .
then let us bow down Charmion , before the excessive majesty of the great God then , there came a shouting and pervading sound , as if from the mouth itself of him ; while the whole incumbent mass of ether in which we existed , burst at once into a species of intense flame , for whose surpassing brilliancy and all fervid heat even the angels in the high Heaven of pure knowledge have no name .
when the slanting wall of Gilman &apos;s room was torn out , the once sealed triangular space between that partition and the house &apos;s north wall was found to contain much less structural debris , even in proportion to its size , than the room itself ; though it had a ghastly layer of older materials which paralysed the wreckers with horror .
will you be kind enough to lend me a couple of shillings ? &quot;
detain me here forever if you will ; confine or execute me if you must have a victim to propitiate the illusion you call justice ; but I can say no more than I have said already .
the old man felt the system of universal nature which he had so long studied and adored , slide from under him , and he stood among the dead , and lifted his voice in curses .
the name of my friend was Woodville .
&quot; he is come &quot; exclaimed the Duchess .
still I see nothing but a tumultuous mob of idiots and madmen , who are busy in prostrating themselves before a gigantic cameleopard , and endeavoring to obtain a kiss of the animal &apos;s hoofs .
about me in my exhaustion I could see only strange walls and windows and old gambrel roofs .
his studies have been confined to the poetry of Crabbe .
I improved , however , sensibly in this science , but not sufficiently to follow up any kind of conversation , although I applied my whole mind to the endeavour , for I easily perceived that , although I eagerly longed to discover myself to the cottagers , I ought not to make the attempt until I had first become master of their language , which knowledge might enable me to make them overlook the deformity of my figure , for with this also the contrast perpetually presented to my eyes had made me acquainted .
it was very peculiar , but as the little boy uttered his petition there seemed to form overhead the shadowy , nebulous figures of exotic things ; of hybrid creatures crowned with horn flanked discs .
alas another &apos;s arms have taken it from the stranger another &apos;s arms have taken it away , and borne it afar off , unnoticed , into the palace And the Marchesa Her lip her beautiful lip trembles : tears are gathering in her eyes those eyes which , like Pliny &apos;s acanthus , are &quot; soft and almost liquid . &quot;
I merely paused a moment to bid Diana behave herself , and assure Pompey that I would be considerate and bear as lightly as possible upon his shoulders .
the pulses were still .
his frequent absences from home at night , which were hailed by the Prefect as certain aids to his success , I regarded only as ruses , to afford opportunity for thorough search to the police , and thus the sooner to impress them with the conviction to which G , in fact , did finally arrive the conviction that the letter was not upon the premises .
this lady , my particular old friend Madame Joyeuse , is as absolutely sane as myself .
in spite of the intense labour and wonderful discoveries of modern philosophers , I always came from my studies discontented and unsatisfied .
yet that is over now : Clerval writes that indeed you are getting better .
Ryland ended by moving , that any attempt to re erect the kingly power should be declared treason , and he a traitor who should endeavour to change the present form of government .
God , what happened in the streets of Innsmouth that night . . .
of course we can &apos;t afford to take these structures down under a bonus of five hundred per cent upon the prime cost of our lot and plaster .
the right arm hung over the balustrade of the box , and thrilled every nerve of my frame with its exquisite symmetry .
if the acquisition of power in the shape of wealth caused this alteration , that power should they feel as an iron yoke .
the inhabitants of this world suffer so much pain .
they knew all that was occurring in the universe , but Their mode of speech was transmitted thought .
now he was praying because the Witches &apos; Sabbath was drawing near .
there is constantly a rousing fire , and a huge pot over it , full of sauer kraut and pork , to which the good woman of the house is always busy in attending .
&quot; even this division , &quot; said I , &quot; leaves me still in the dark . &quot;
it is the mass for which the true Humanity cares .
after more aeons of descent I saw some side passages or burrows leading from unknown recesses of blackness to this shaft of nighted mystery .
and , here and there , in groves about this grass , like wildernesses of dreams , sprang up fantastic trees , whose tall slender stems stood not upright , but slanted gracefully toward the light that peered at noon day into the centre of the valley .
I found him at work in his rooms , and at once conceded from the specimens scattered about that his genius is indeed profound and authentic .
it was the radiance of an opium dream an airy and spirit lifting vision more wildly divine than the phantasies which hovered vision about the slumbering souls of the daughters of Delos .
&quot; I commit my cause to the justice of my judges , yet I see no room for hope .
in the mean time I made no remark .
give me the Canova The Apollo , too , is a copy there can be no doubt of it blind fool that I am , who cannot behold the boasted inspiration of the Apollo I cannot help pity me I cannot help preferring the Antinous .
my aspect was a matter equally unthought of , for there were no mirrors in the castle , and I merely regarded myself by instinct as akin to the youthful figures I saw drawn and painted in the books .
still , the sneer at my graphic powers irritated me for I am considered a good artist and , therefore , when you handed me the scrap of parchment , I was about to crumple it up and throw it angrily into the fire . &quot;
I had fallen into an habitual see saw , or wave of the hand about the platter : and , at length , the unconscious uniformity of the movement deprived it of effect .
weighing in his mind the importance of the matter , and the significance of our relation to it , he insisted that we both test and if possible destroy the horror of the house by a joint night or nights of aggressive vigil in that musty and fungus cursed cellar .
at the age of sixteen I had shot up in appearance to man &apos;s estate ; I was tall and athletic ; I was practised to feats of strength , and inured to the inclemency of the elements .
the very best recommendations , not so much for capacity , as for integrity , will be expected .
she made , however , every exertion to keep her mouth closed and look dignified , in a dress consisting of a newly starched and ironed shroud coming up close under her chin , with a crimpled ruffle of cambric muslin .
dazed and frightened , yet not without a certain thrill of the scientist &apos;s or archaeologist &apos;s delight , I examined my surroundings more closely .
his main wish , more particularly now that he witnessed the abject dwelling of the artist , was to relieve one , possessed of talent , but depressed by want .
she indeed gained the resignation she desired .
some person is concealed in the box during the whole time of exhibiting the interior .
his expression of wolfish exultation began to be crowded aside by a look of profound fear which did not , however , wholly displace the exultation .
Remplis ton verre vide Vide ton verre plein &quot; My dear uncle , &quot; said I , closing the door gently , and approaching him with the blandest of smiles , &quot; you are always so very kind and considerate , and have evinced your benevolence in so many so very many ways that that I feel I have only to suggest this little point to you once more to make sure of your full acquiescence . &quot;
certainly , the events of that evening greatly changed George Birch .
it was definitely known that they had come to bear away the great image of Tyché and bring eternal honour to Musides , so their reception by the proxenoi was of great warmth .
what I now heard so graphically at first hand , though it was really no more than a detailed confirmation of what my uncle had written , excited me afresh ; for I felt sure that I was on the track of a very real , very secret , and very ancient religion whose discovery would make me an anthropologist of note .
Opprobrious epithets were bandied about , resistance even to the death threatened ; meetings of the populace disturbed the quiet order of the country ; except in war , how could all this end ?
since my arrival here I have not for a moment ceased to feel the hell of passion which has been implanted in me to burn untill all be cold , and stiff , and dead .
yet not until the last instance , amid the most convulsive writhings of her fierce spirit , was shaken the external placidity of her demeanor .
the river descends rapidly and winds between hills , not high , but steep , and of beautiful forms .
the half extinct spirit of royalty roused itself in the minds of men ; and they , willing slaves , self constituted subjects , were ready to bend their necks to the yoke .
but at this presumption the stiff gentleman in the coffin seemed exceedingly nettled ; and serious consequences might have ensued , had not the president , rapping upon the table with his truncheon , diverted the attention of all present to the following speech : &quot; it becomes our duty upon the present happy occasion &quot; &quot; Avast there &quot; interrupted Legs , looking very serious , &quot; avast there a bit , I say , and tell us who the devil ye all are , and what business ye have here , rigged off like the foul fiends , and swilling the snug blue ruin stowed away for the winter by my honest shipmate , Will Wimble the undertaker &quot; At this unpardonable piece of ill breeding , all the original company half started to their feet , and uttered the same rapid succession of wild fiendish shrieks which had before caught the attention of the seamen .
he usually finished his experiments with a revolver , but a few times he had not been quick enough .
she busied herself with following the aerial creations of the poets ; and in the majestic and wondrous scenes which surrounded our Swiss home the sublime shapes of the mountains , the changes of the seasons , tempest and calm , the silence of winter , and the life and turbulence of our Alpine summers she found ample scope for admiration and delight .
it was already dusk before we thought of returning ; and then we discovered that William and Ernest , who had gone on before , were not to be found .
now let us suppose this sense of the Almighty design to be one step depressed to be brought into something like harmony or consistency with the sense of human art to form an intermedium between the two : let us imagine , for example , a landscape whose combined vastness and definitiveness whose united beauty , magnificence , and strangeness , shall convey the idea of care , or culture , or superintendence , on the part of beings superior , yet akin to humanity then the sentiment of interest is preserved , while the art intervolved is made to assume the air of an intermediate or secondary nature a nature which is not God , nor an emanation from God , but which still is nature in the sense of the handiwork of the angels that hover between man and God . &quot;
he was too much of an animal , too little a man ; yet it is through his deficiency that you have come to discover me , for the cosmic and planet souls rightly should never meet .
we were too late for the elevated , and walked back downtown through Hanover Street .
&quot; why , as for that , a madman is not necessarily a fool , as I have already observed ; and it is my honest opinion that his treatment was a much better treatment than that which it superseded .
at the spot thus attained a second peg was driven , and about this , as a centre , a rude circle , about four feet in diameter , described .
listen to my tale ; when you have heard that , abandon or commiserate me , as you shall judge that I deserve .
my father had often , during my imprisonment , heard me make the same assertion ; when I thus accused myself , he sometimes seemed to desire an explanation , and at others he appeared to consider it as the offspring of delirium , and that , during my illness , some idea of this kind had presented itself to my imagination , the remembrance of which I preserved in my convalescence .
his thoughts are his own .
in short , I was not long in perceiving that if man is to be intellectually convinced of his own immortality , he will never be so convinced by the mere abstractions which have been so long the fashion of the moralists of England , of France , and of Germany .
I spoke boldly , freely in a word , I spoke with passion .
&quot; to be sure , papa , it is something strange ; but then Captain Pratt and Captain Smitherton didn &apos;t go altogether the same route , and that makes a difference , you know . &quot;
I thought of Switzerland ; it was far different from this desolate and appalling landscape .
debasement of character is the certain follower of such pursuits .
for one instant the party upon the stairs remained motionless , through extremity of terror and of awe .
there were some strange garments in the room , but West upon regaining consciousness said they did not belong to the stranger , but were specimens collected for bacteriological analysis in the course of investigations on the transmission of germ diseases .
their thoughts , too , fought with the wise , just spirit of The Street , so that The street pined silently as its houses fell into decay , and its trees died one by one , and its rose gardens grew rank with weeds and waste .
&quot; Vot is cum &apos;d to mein pelly ? &quot; roared all the boys &quot; I &apos;ve been ongry for dis hour &quot; &quot; Vot is com &apos;d to mein kraut ? &quot; screamed all the vrows , &quot; It has been done to rags for this hour &quot; &quot; Vot is cum &apos;d to mein pipe ? &quot; swore all the little old gentlemen , &quot; Donder and Blitzen ; it has been smoked out for dis hour &quot; and they filled them up again in a great rage , and sinking back in their arm chairs , puffed away so fast and so fiercely that the whole valley was immediately filled with impenetrable smoke .
and they sigh one unto the other .
as it disappeared I saw that the blue eyes behind the spectacles were hideously blazing with their first touch of frantic , visible emotion .
with the set sun and the deepening twilight the park became nearly empty .
could not be sure that it was a man &apos;s voice .
thus your wild sobs floated into my ear with all their mournful cadences , and were appreciated in their every variation of sad tone ; but they were soft musical sounds and no more ; they conveyed to the extinct reason no intimation of the sorrows which gave them birth ; while the large and constant tears which fell upon my face , telling the bystanders of a heart which broke , thrilled every fibre of my frame with ecstasy alone .
the dark glassy surface displayed a pinkish glow , and a vague white shape seemed to be taking form at its centre .
the man within is now at liberty to move about .
yet , in time and by long and frequent pauses of deep agony , he reaches the river &apos;s brink , and disposes of his ghastly charge perhaps through the medium of a boat .
we know that the ; immediately ensuing is the commencement of a word , and , of the six characters succeeding this &apos; the , &apos; we are cognizant of no less than five .
we thrill , for example , with the most intense of &quot; pleasurable pain &quot; over the accounts of the passage of the Beresina , of the earthquake at Lisbon , of the Plague at London , of the massacre of St. Bartholomew , or of the stifling of the hundred and twenty three prisoners in the Black hole at Calcutta .
and who was so worthy of love as my noble minded sister ?
one day , after the lapse of nearly a month , Adrian received a letter from a friend in London , requesting his immediate presence for the furtherance of some important object .
he had previously communicated his plan to the former , who aided the deceit by quitting his house , under the pretence of a journey and concealed himself , with his daughter , in an obscure part of Paris .
after a time the cautious rattling ceased , and I heard the room to the north entered with a pass key .
Johansen , thank God , did not know quite all , even though he saw the city and the Thing , but I shall never sleep calmly again when I think of the horrors that lurk ceaselessly behind life in time and in space , and of those unhallowed blasphemies from elder stars which dream beneath the sea , known and favoured by a nightmare cult ready and eager to loose them on the world whenever another earthquake shall heave their monstrous stone city again to the sun and air .
I was about throwing away , in disgust , &quot; This folio of four pages , happy work Which not even critics criticise , &quot; when I felt my attention somewhat aroused by the paragraph which follows : &quot; the avenues to death are numerous and strange .
these ancient turrets , stained by the storms of generations and crumbling under the slow yet mighty pressure of time , formed in the ages of feudalism one of the most dreaded and formidable fortresses in all France .
Clerval did not like it so well as Oxford , for the antiquity of the latter city was more pleasing to him .
that his learning was deep and thorough , his most trivial remarks made abundantly clear ; and Williams was not surprised to hear that he had been to Harrow and Oxford .
the intriguing Palli , the accomplished Karazza , the warlike Ypsilanti , were among the principal .
my Friendship for the celebrated Monsieur Voltaire was ever a cause of annoyance to the Doctor ; who was deeply orthodox , and who us &apos;d to say of the French philosopher : &quot; Vir est acerrimi Ingenii et paucarum Literarum . &quot;
&quot; confound him , say I yes ; I made the re examination , however , as Dupin suggested but it was all labor lost , as I knew it would be . &quot;
&quot; a mere bagtelle , &quot; said Monsieur Maillard .
your witness says he saw us at half past eleven on the Gainesville pike , headed for Big Cypress Swamp .
there was a dark open doorway on the right , to which the black man silently pointed .
awe stricken , and with a creeping shudder , I extinguished the lamp , passed silently from the chamber , and left , at once , the halls of that old academy , never to enter them again .
looking up , I perceived the Angel of the Odd .
Mrs. Herrero crossed herself when she looked at him , and gave him up unreservedly to me ; not even letting her son Esteban continue to run errands for him .
our house was situated on the shores of the lake and the lawn came down to the water &apos;s edge .
the error of these Jurmains , these Vrinch , these Inglitch , and these Amriccans the latter , by the way , were our own immediate progenitors , was an error quite analogous with that of the wiseacre who fancies that he must necessarily see an object the better the more closely he holds it to his eyes .
fully three hundred miles the hour that was travelling .
I followed dumbly down the footworn steps and into the dank , suffocating crypt .
I now related my history briefly but with firmness and precision , marking the dates with accuracy and never deviating into invective or exclamation .
in other words , I beheld as much as a sixteen hundredth part of the whole surface of the globe .
in one triumphant demonstration West was about to relegate the mystery of life to the category of myth .
and far beneath the keel Kuranes could see strange lands and rivers and cities of surpassing beauty , spread indolently in the sunshine which seemed never to lessen or disappear .
by very slow degrees , and with frequent relapses that alarmed and grieved my friend , I recovered .
now , in the struggles of one unused to swimming , the arms are invariably thrown upwards , while an attempt is made to keep the head in its usual perpendicular position .
Raymond encircled her waist with his arm , and continued , &quot; I do not deny that I have balanced between you and the highest hope that mortal men can entertain ; but I do so no longer .
that shock at the mansion had done something to my brain , and I could think only of the quest for a horror now grown to cataclysmic stature in my imagination ; a quest which the fate of Arthur Munroe made me vow to keep silent and solitary .
it was strange to me , who , though older than Adrian , had never loved , to witness the whole heart &apos;s sacrifice of my friend .
the printless road was very lonely , and sometimes I thought I heard a distant horrible creaking as of a gibbet in the wind .
&quot; a huge human foot d &apos;or , in a field azure ; the foot crushes a serpent rampant whose fangs are imbedded in the heel . &quot;
what a glorious creature must he have been in the days of his prosperity , when he is thus noble and godlike in ruin He seems to feel his own worth and the greatness of his fall .
he had said that the geometry of the dream place he saw was abnormal , non Euclidean , and loathsomely redolent of spheres and dimensions apart from ours .
that same evening we all three walked together in the forest , and , with the garrulity which happiness inspires , they detailed to me the history of their loves .
stretching inland from among them I saw the rusted , grass grown line of the abandoned railway , with leaning telegraph poles now devoid of wires , and the half obscured lines of the old carriage roads to Rowley and Ipswich .
it was everywhere a gelatin a slime yet it had shapes , a thousand shapes of horror beyond all memory .
oh , I must hear do tell go on , Mrs. O &apos;Trump do now go on &quot; And go on Mrs. O &apos;Trump did all about a certain Captain Mann , who was either shot or hung , or should have been both shot and hung .
now in no one of the seven apartments was there any lamp or candelabrum , amid the profusion of golden ornaments that lay scattered to and fro or depended from the roof .
&quot; this thing , &quot; I exclaimed , &quot; is a contemptible falsehood a poor hoax the lees of the invention of some pitiable penny a liner of some wretched concoctor of accidents in Cocaigne .
and the sons of those young men of other days , who did indeed go forth in olive drab with the true spirit of their ancestors , went from distant places and knew not The Street and its ancient spirit .
imagine my delighted astonishment on hearing the spy inform my parent in a cautious whisper that I had spent the night in the bower outside the tomb ; my sleep filmed eyes fixed upon the crevice where the padlocked portal stood ajar By what miracle had the watcher been thus deluded ?
we , in our cloudy isle , were far removed from danger , and the only circumstance that brought these disasters at all home to us , was the daily arrival of vessels from the east , crowded with emigrants , mostly English ; for the Moslems , though the fear of death was spread keenly among them , still clung together ; that , if they were to die and if they were , death would as readily meet them on the homeless sea , or in far England , as in Persia , if they were to die , their bones might rest in earth made sacred by the relics of true believers .
being naturally quick , I committed to memory the entire tragedy of &quot; Metamora . &quot;
I watched him curiously , determined that , if this hesitation should continue , I would assist Perdita to overcome herself , and teach her to disdain the wavering love of him , who balanced between the possession of a crown , and of her , whose excellence and affection transcended the worth of a kingdom .
it was a living object the first except the driver that I had seen since entering the compact part of the town and had I been in a steadier mood I would have found nothing whatever of terror in it .
&quot; that man has the plague , &quot; said the maniac calmly .
hev yew ever seed trees like thet , with big leaves a floppin &apos; over an &apos; daown ?
some of the stories would make you laugh about old Captain Marsh driving bargains with the devil and bringing imps out of hell to live in Innsmouth , or about some kind of devil worship and awful sacrifices in some place near the wharves that people stumbled on around or thereabouts but I come from Panton , Vermont , and that kind of story don &apos;t go down with me .
and is not the whole paragraph in the &apos; Courier and Enquirer &apos; a fabrication got up to &apos; make a talk &apos; ?
I have never met a person who has seen the Rue d &apos;Auseil .
I don &apos;t wish to offend you , and heaven knows I &apos;d be glad enough to have you with me ; but the responsibility is in a certain sense mine , and I couldn &apos;t drag a bundle of nerves like you down to probable death or madness .
what he had prevented the knife from doing to the victim &apos;s chest , the yellow fangs of the furry blasphemy had done to a wrist and the bowl so lately on the floor stood full beside the small lifeless body .
having formed some disagreeable impressions connected with the name of Marsh , I did not welcome the news that it belonged on my own ancestral tree ; nor was I pleased by Mr. Peabody &apos;s suggestion that I had the true Marsh eyes myself .
one day , several months after my return to England , I quitted London to visit my sister .
the fair page now lying before me need not be sullied with my real appellation .
I shall relate my tale therefore as if I wrote for strangers .
she was startled and pained .
what can stop the determined heart and resolved will of man ?
the search after a stray lamb , or the devices by which we elude or endeavoured to elude punishment , filled up the hours of afternoon ; in the evening my flock went to its fold , and I to my sister .
madmen are of some nation , and their language , however incoherent in its words , has always the coherence of syllabification .
what chiefly struck me was the gentle manners of these people , and I longed to join them , but dared not .
this manoeuvre was totally unperceived on the part of the three duns ; and , jumping into the car , I immediately cut the single cord which held me to the earth , and was pleased to find that I shot upward , carrying with all ease one hundred and seventy five pounds of leaden ballast , and able to have carried up as many more .
almost any one , falling into a river , will be enabled to float , if he suffer the specific gravity of the water fairly to be adduced in comparison with his own that is to say , if he suffer his whole person to be immersed , with as little exception as possible .
&quot; and how many have you in charge ? &quot;
I have thus painted the happy estate of Vondervotteimittiss : alas , that so fair a picture should ever experience a reverse There has been long a saying among the wisest inhabitants , that &quot; no good can come from over the hills &quot; ; and it really seemed that the words had in them something of the spirit of prophecy .
the bottom of the box is elevated considerably above the floor by means of the castors or brazen rollers on which it moves , a clear view of the surface immediately beneath the Automaton being thus afforded to the spectators .
the lanterns having been lit , we all fell to work with a zeal worthy a more rational cause ; and , as the glare fell upon our persons and implements , I could not help thinking how picturesque a group we composed , and how strange and suspicious our labors must have appeared to any interloper who , by chance , might have stumbled upon our whereabouts .
a searching party , headed by the frantic father , invaded the cottage of the sorcerers and there came upon old Michel Mauvais , busy over a huge and violently boiling cauldron .
the oaks around were the home of a tribe of nightingales there am I now ; Idris , in youth &apos;s dear prime , is by my side remember , I am just twenty two , and seventeen summers have scarcely passed over the beloved of my heart .
Evadne loved Raymond .
though it was winter , the atmosphere seemed more appropriate to early spring ; and its genial warmth contributed to inspire those sensations of placid delight , which are the portion of every traveller , as he lingers , loath to quit the tranquil bays and radiant promontories of Baiae .
I rushed to its deadly brink .
perhaps a cavern or series of caverns furnished the nucleus .
and when Iranon had wept over the grave of Romnod and strown it with green budding branches , such as Romnod used to love , he put aside his silks and gauds and went forgotten out of Oonai the city of lutes and dancing clad only in the ragged purple in which he had come , and garlanded with fresh vines from the mountains .
&quot; he he he &quot; replied the Devil faintly , drawing himself up with an air of hauteur .
in less than a month I was in Dunedin ; where , however , I found that little was known of the strange cult members who had lingered in the old sea taverns .
it was a strong effort of the spirit of good , but it was ineffectual .
I reflected that man is the veriest slave of custom , and that many points in the routine of his existence are deemed essentially important , which are only so at all by his having rendered them habitual .
I assert , however , that much of our incredulity as La Bruyère says of all our unhappiness &quot; vient de ne pouvoir être seuls . &quot;
what does he complain of ? &quot; &quot; dar dat &apos;s it him neber plain of notin but him berry sick for all dat . &quot; &quot; very sick , Jupiter why didn &apos;t you say so at once ?
he muttered to himself , in a low broken tone , some words of a language which I could not understand , and groped in a corner among a pile of singular looking instruments , and decayed charts of navigation .
his diary states that he reached Tempest Mountain on September , finding the mansion in great decrepitude .
he had passed the sixteen years of absence among nations nearly unknown to Europe ; he had wandered through Persia , Arabia and the north of India and had penetrated among the habitations of the natives with a freedom permitted to few Europeans .
when I first beheld this apparition for I could scarcely regard it as less my wonder and my terror were extreme .
&quot; ha ha ha ha ha ha ho ho ho &quot; roared our visiter , profoundly amused , &quot; oh , Dupin , you will be the death of me yet &quot; &quot; And what , after all , is the matter on hand ? &quot;
for a brief moment I hesitated I trembled .
the face was suffused with dark blood , some of which issued from the mouth .
if I could gain the roofs of the buildings in Paine Street and descend successfully to the ground level , I might perhaps dart through the courtyard and the adjacent or opposite buildings to Washington or Bates or else emerge in Paine and edge around southward into Washington .
there could be no mistaking it .
now , if it were my design to return at all if I had in contemplation merely a stroll with the individual in question it would not be my policy to bid St. Eustache call ; for , calling , he will be sure to ascertain that I have played him false a fact of which I might keep him for ever in ignorance , by leaving home without notifying him of my intention , by returning before dark , and by then stating that I had been to visit my aunt in the Rue des Drômes .
we &apos;d have had to walk up the hill from Park Street if we &apos;d taken the car .
&quot; but I am afraid that I wander from my purpose .
his words had a strange effect upon me .
when I awaked , I was not as I had been .
when he spoke at length , his soft , hollow , and carefully muffled voice not infrequently quavered ; and now and then I had great difficulty in following him as I listened with a thrill of amazement and half disavowed alarm which grew each instant .
I did not need to be told that this was the civic centre of Innsmouth .
Raymond was the theme of every tongue , the hope of each wife , mother or betrothed bride , whose husband , child , or lover , making a part of the Greek army , were to be conducted to victory by him .
wherein all the significant undercurrents of Graeco Roman expression were crystallised once for all and with admirable acuteness , notwithstanding the surprisingly late date at which Ibid wrote .
you are not prepared to maintain that you are dead ? &quot;
to this I agreed ; not knowing precisely what to make of so ridiculous a piece of business .
three years before , I was engaged in the same manner and had created a fiend whose unparalleled barbarity had desolated my heart and filled it forever with the bitterest remorse .
I saw the features of Perdita soften ; the sternness of grief yielded to tenderness I continued : &quot; thus to honour him , is the sacred duty of his survivors .
whereupon our diddler copies the facts of this advertisement , with a change of heading , of general phraseology and address .
am I the cause of your grief ? &quot;
it then again made off .
presently there came a feeble gleam of sunshine , and the shadow of the leaves of the tree fell faintly but definitely upon the grass .
they &apos;s allus ben unseen things araound Dunwich livin &apos; things as ain &apos;t human an &apos; ain &apos;t good fer human folks .
the spire of Evian shone under the woods that surrounded it and the range of mountain above mountain by which it was overhung .
&quot; but the evidence , you will say , of Madame Deluc , points especially to the presence of a gang , in the vicinity of the thicket , at or about the epoch of the murder .
the lake was deep at some points thirty feet but the rivulet seldom exceeded three , while its greatest width was about eight .
I saw an insurmountable barrier placed between me and my fellow men ; this barrier was sealed with the blood of William and Justine , and to reflect on the events connected with those names filled my soul with anguish .
these things were never still , but seemed ever floating about with some malignant purpose .
I had delved not a little into odd Eastern lore when overtaken by the calamities which brought about my new life in America &apos;s vast West a life wherein I found it well to accept a name my present one which is very common and carries no meaning .
he , however , answered mildly , &quot; I would willingly afford you every aid in your pursuit , but the creature of whom you speak appears to have powers which would put all my exertions to defiance .
&quot; you shall , Verney , &quot; said he , &quot; and if you continue of the same mind , I will facilitate your views .
a mood of hideous apprehension and expectancy had seized him , and he seemed to be awaiting the fall of some annihilating blow .
upon awaking from slumber , I could never gain , at once , thorough possession of my senses , and always remained , for many minutes , in much bewilderment and perplexity ; the mental faculties in general , but the memory in especial , being in a condition of absolute abeyance .
Raymond was not forgotten in England .
it was built although about this matter there is some dispute by Seleucus Nicanor , the first king of the country after Alexander the Great , in memory of his father Antiochus , and became immediately the residence of the Syrian monarchy .
or was it rather a caprice of my own a wildly romantic offering on the shrine of the most passionate devotion ?
we suffered terribly , and on a certain night my friend sank into a deep breathing sleep from which I could not awaken him .
I saw only the man , the glowing machine , and the dim apartment .
at length a drawing came , with an address where communications might be sent , and no artist &apos;s name affixed .
one part was the hem of the frock , and it had been mended ; the other piece was part of the skirt , not the hem .
so Kuranes sought fruitlessly for the marvellous city of Celephaïs and its galleys that sail to Serannian in the sky , meanwhile seeing many wonders and once barely escaping from the high priest not to be described , which wears a yellow silken mask over its face and dwells all alone in a prehistoric stone monastery on the cold desert plateau of Leng .
later I noticed some with candles ; and at last , after traversing a horrible unlighted court where my guide had to lead with his gloved hand through total blackness to a narrow wooden gate in a high wall , we came upon a fragment of alley lit only by lanterns in front of every seventh house unbelievably colonial tin lanterns with conical tops and holes punched in the sides .
I felt somehow in deadly peril , and drew out the peculiar ray projector as a weapon of defence .
many hands roughly seized me upon the spot , and lights were immediately reprocured .
in one sentence I have passed from the idea of unspeakable happiness to that of unspeakable grief but they were thus closely linked together .
now she was aware that my own age did not exceed two and twenty ; and I , on the contrary , perhaps , was not aware that the years of my Eugenie extended very considerably beyond that sum .
I laugh at the shallow endocrinologist , fellow dupe and fellow parvenu of the Freudian .
then he was gay as a lark carolling from its skiey tower , soaring in thought as an eagle , innocent as the mild eyed dove .
the destitute condition , and highly wrought feelings of his friend prevented him from adverting to the possibility of exiling himself from her .
the man , says Lord Bacon , who hath wife and children , has given hostages to fortune .
but my soul took a wild interest in trifles , and I busied myself in endeavors to account for the error I had committed in my measurement .
&apos;Truth is strange , &apos; you know , &apos; stranger than fiction &apos; besides being more to the purpose . &quot;
by the by , I mean to lecture you a little upon their account myself .
as soon , therefore , as a building project is fairly afoot by one of these parties , we merchants secure a nice corner of the lot in contemplation , or a prime little situation just adjoining , or tight in front .
I do believe I am for I have surely a new soul within me , and my blood riots through my veins : I am burnt up with fever .
as I did so there came to me the purest ecstasy I have ever known ; for shining tranquilly through an ornate grating of iron , and down a short stone passageway of steps that ascended from the newly found doorway , was the radiant full moon , which I had never before seen save in dreams and in vague visions I dared not call memories .
in a very short period he had become my debtor to a large amount , when , having taken a long draught of port , he did precisely what I had been coolly anticipating he proposed to double our already extravagant stakes .
just what it was that I feared or loathed , I could by no means define ; but something in the whole atmosphere seemed redolent of unhallowed age , of unpleasant crudeness , and of secrets which should be forgotten .
whist has long been noted for its influence upon what is termed the calculating power ; and men of the highest order of intellect have been known to take an apparently unaccountable delight in it , while eschewing chess as frivolous .
in the mean time we were borne far from the kiosk , and became bewildered and entangled among the narrow streets of tall , overhanging houses , into the recesses of which the sun had never been able to shine .
it came as I droned aloud the ninth verse of that primal lay , and I knew amidst my shudders what it meant .
I fell back with a shudder upon the couch from which I had been so startlingly aroused , and again gave myself up to passionate waking visions of Ligeia .
my eldest brother had a son eighteen years old , and I had two stout boys of my own .
having come mainly to observe , I took notice that to my right as I stepped in , was a window , such as those in front of the house ; to the left , a door leading into the principal room ; while , opposite me , an open door enabled me to see a small apartment , just the size of the vestibule , arranged as a study , and having a large bow window looking out to the north .
scarcely had I set foot in Paris ere I had fresh evidence of the detestable interest taken by this Wilson in my concerns .
yet we find him urging the point that no person saw the girl from the moment of her leaving her mother &apos;s house .
now she could hardly walk .
but I check these expressions ; these may not be the consolations of the living ; they weep for their own misery , and not for that of the being they have lost .
simultaneously the light from my ring was extinguished , and I saw a new light glimmering from lower space but a few yards ahead of me .
Monday was a repetition of Sunday with Dr. Armitage , for the task in hand required an infinity of research and experiment .
it was a town of wide extent and dense construction , yet one with a portentous dearth of visible life .
I relished the picters , so he give it in on a swap .
a large gimlet hole had been pierced in its frame to the left , and a very stout nail was found fitted therein , nearly to the head .
&quot; but , sir , &quot; says the publican , now rather at a loss what to say , &quot; but sir &quot; &quot; But me no buts , sir , &quot; interrupts the diddler , apparently in very high dudgeon , and slamming the door after him , as he makes his escape .
the united strength of our resuscitated voices was soon sufficiently apparent .
the excited chatter of the menials standing about told him what had occurred , yet he seemed at first unmoved at his father &apos;s fate .
after the scientific slaughter of uncounted small animals the freakish work had ostensibly stopped by order of our sceptical dean , Dr. Allan Halsey ; though West had continued to perform certain secret tests in his dingy boarding house room , and had on one terrible and unforgettable occasion taken a human body from its grave in the potter &apos;s field to a deserted farmhouse beyond Meadow Hill .
and in the course of many cycles they tenderly left him sleeping on a green sunrise shore ; a green shore fragrant with lotus blossoms and starred by red camalotes .
what he failed to recall was that the deeds of reality are just as inane and childish , and even more absurd because their actors persist in fancying them full of meaning and purpose as the blind cosmos grinds aimlessly on from nothing to something and from something back to nothing again , neither heeding nor knowing the wishes or existence of the minds that flicker for a second now and then in the darkness .
and Iranon answered : &quot; be it so , small one ; if any in this stone place yearn for beauty he must seek the mountains and beyond , and I would not leave thee to pine by the sluggish Zuro .
in the grey light of dawn I staggered from the vault and locked the chain of the door behind me .
let us follow him to the hippodrome , whither he is proceeding , and listen to the song of triumph which he is commencing : who is king but Epiphanes ?
his eloquence is forcible and touching ; nor can I hear him , when he relates a pathetic incident or endeavours to move the passions of pity or love , without tears .
the feeling was not with her as with many , a pastime ; it was a passion .
you would not call it murder if you could precipitate me into one of those ice rifts and destroy my frame , the work of your own hands .
cursed be the day , abhorred devil , in which you first saw light Cursed although I curse myself be the hands that formed you You have made me wretched beyond expression .
happily the state of my respiratory faculties rendered suffocation an accident entirely out of the question .
in time the crimson spot settled steadily upon the cheek , and the blue veins upon the pale forehead became prominent ; and one instant my nature melted into pity , but in , next I met the glance of her meaning eyes , and then my soul sickened and became giddy with the giddiness of one who gazes downward into some dreary and unfathomable abyss .
the cephalopod head was bent forward , so that the ends of the facial feelers brushed the backs of huge fore paws which clasped the croucher &apos;s elevated knees .
&quot; let us see the means , &quot; they cried , &quot; the means &quot; If , upon investigation of the means , it was found to come under neither the category Aries that is to say Ram nor under the category Hog , why then the savans went no farther , but pronounced the &quot; theorist &quot; a fool , and would have nothing to do with him or his truth .
&quot; well I have been absent just one year .
it is said that in Ulthar , which lies beyond the river Skai , no man may kill a cat ; and this I can verily believe as I gaze upon him who sitteth purring before the fire .
&quot; certainly ; it would indeed be very impertinent and inhuman in me to trouble you with any inquisitiveness of mine . &quot;
to night I wear this dear eye glass as an eye glass , and upon my heart ; but with the earliest dawn of that morning which gives me the privilege of calling you wife , I will place it upon my upon my nose , and there wear it ever afterward , in the less romantic , and less fashionable , but certainly in the more serviceable , form which you desire.&apos;
it was twilight before I was done , but fear had gone out of the place .
besides , the strange nature of the animal would elude all pursuit , even if I were so far credited as to persuade my relatives to commence it .
one night , returning home , much intoxicated , from one of my haunts about town , I fancied that the cat avoided my presence .
the French army had entered Toledo .
&quot; I shall add but one to the arguments against a gang ; but this one has , to my own understanding at least , a weight altogether irresistible .
&quot; Matt he didn &apos;t like this business at all , an &apos; wanted Obed shud keep away from the island ; but the Cap &apos;n was sharp fer gain , an &apos; faound he cud git them gold like things so cheap it ud pay him to make a specialty of &apos; em .
I will revenge my injuries ; if I cannot inspire love , I will cause fear , and chiefly towards you my arch enemy , because my creator , do I swear inextinguishable hatred .
such as the peasant enjoys when his family have been massacred before his eyes , his cottage burnt , his lands laid waste , and he is turned adrift , homeless , penniless , and alone , but free .
there be those who say that things and places have souls , and there be those who say they have not ; I dare not say , myself , but I will tell of The Street .
Legrand was in one of his fits how else shall I term them ? of enthusiasm .
Lord Raymond was the sole remnant of a noble but impoverished family .
it was May before they arrived : the season had decked the forest trees with leaves , and its paths with a thousand flowers .
there was now a partial glow upon the forehead and upon the cheek and throat ; a perceptible warmth pervaded the whole frame ; there was even a slight pulsation at the heart .
call at No . , Rue , Faubourg St. Germain au troisiême .
we continued our route in search of the Amontillado .
their knees trembled with infirmity ; their shoulders were bent double with decrepitude ; their shrivelled skins rattled in the wind ; their voices were low , tremulous and broken ; their eyes glistened with the rheum of years ; and their gray hairs streamed terribly in the tempest .
and , first , let me direct your notice to the date of the discovery of the articles .
we did not separate , but managed to get to West &apos;s room , where we whispered with the gas up until dawn .
while the component parts may defy , individually , the highest skill of the artist , the arrangement of these parts will always be susceptible of improvement .
often , after the rest of the family had retired for the night , I took the boat and passed many hours upon the water .
before I reached Main Street I could hear a faint and wheezy &quot; Hey , Mister &quot; behind me , and I presently allowed the old man to catch up and take copious pulls from the quart bottle .
it is true , he seldom came to see me , for although he ardently desired to relieve the sufferings of every human creature , he did not wish to be present at the agonies and miserable ravings of a murderer .
I have a passion for fine shoulders , and may say that I never beheld them in perfection before .
in regard to individual charities he had satisfied his conscience .
they were sometimes shewn in groups in cemeteries or underground passages , and often appeared to be in battle over their prey or rather , their treasure trove .
his bony claw dug monstrously into my shoulder , and he made no motion as I turned my head to look at whatever he had glimpsed .
at a casual inspection the room seemed deserted , but when I moved toward one of the alcoves I thought I detected a presence there a hint of motion beyond the golden arched doorway leading to another and somewhat similar room .
dear lady , I had none to support me ; all looked on me as a wretch doomed to ignominy and perdition .
there was menace in this immunity .
I found no skeletons or other human remains , but gleaned a wealth of archaeological lore from sculptures and coins .
I must endure life ; and as it is my duty so I shall untill the grave dreaded yet desired , receive me free from pain : for while I feel it will be pain that must make up the whole sum of my sensations .
poor Juliet saw one by one , father , mother , brothers , and sisters , sicken and die .
in another instant he had lurched backward through the opening and was lost to view .
however , you can send four dollars in change with the bundle , you know . &quot;
these contests were aggravated by the season : they took place during summer , when the southern Asiatic wind came laden with intolerable heat , when the streams were dried up in their shallow beds , and the vast basin of the sea appeared to glow under the unmitigated rays of the solsticial sun .
men knew not what to imagine .
I have said that aeons seemed to elapse after Warren shrieked forth his last despairing warning , and that only my own cries now broke the hideous silence .
the fury of his passion is over , and there is abundant room in his heart for the natural awe of the deed .
horrible pains , as of savage wounds , shot through his calves ; and in his mind was a vortex of fright mixed with an unquenchable materialism that suggested splinters , loose nails , or some other attribute of a breaking wooden box .
let me call myself , for the present , William Wilson .
then I finally went , the sinister man and the old spinning woman before me .
in this manner I conversed with Monsieur Maillard for an hour or two , during which he showed me the gardens and conservatories of the place .
she had died in Africa , perhaps dragged thither by a husband determined to prove what he had told .
I thought of pursuing the devil ; but it would have been in vain , for another flash discovered him to me hanging among the rocks of the nearly perpendicular ascent of Mont Saleve , a hill that bounds Plainpalais on the south .
that fine tragedian , Climax , was doing Iago to a very crowded house , and I experienced some little difficulty in making my wishes understood ; especially , as our box was next the slips , and completely overlooked the stage .
your affectionate brother , R. Walton Letter Archangel , th March , To Mrs. Saville , England How slowly the time passes here , encompassed as I am by frost and snow Yet a second step is taken towards my enterprise .
chaos supervened , and I knew the peace of oblivion .
there is , however , a remembrance of aerial forms of spiritual and meaning eyes of sounds , musical yet sad a remembrance which will not be excluded ; a memory like a shadow vague , variable , indefinite , unsteady ; and like a shadow , too , in the impossibility of my getting rid of it while the sunlight of my reason shall exist .
we had also on board coir , jaggeree , ghee , cocoa nuts , and a few cases of opium .
that is , none but his grandfather and great uncle Christopher could , and they were long dead .
I was touched by his account of the aged Dr. Torres of Valencia , who had shared his earlier experiments with him through the great illness of eighteen years before , whence his present disorders proceeded .
there were witches and what their spells summoned ; pirates and what they brought in from the sea ; smugglers ; privateers and I tell you , people knew how to live , and how to enlarge the bounds of life , in the old times This wasn &apos;t the only world a bold and wise man could know faugh And to think of today in contrast , with such pale pink brains that even a club of supposed artists gets shudders and convulsions if a picture goes beyond the feelings of a Beacon Street tea table &quot; The only saving grace of the present is that it &apos;s too damned stupid to question the past very closely .
with trembling hand she gave him the paper , and sat white and motionless looking at him while he read it .
they performed towards him every little office of affection and duty with gentleness , and he rewarded them by his benevolent smiles .
and then a second horror took possession of my soul .
our discourse was unholy , and always hideously ambitious no god or daemon could have aspired to discoveries and conquests like those which we planned in whispers .
they swear no harm or pain can inhabit that high peaked cottage , for in the new voices gladness beats , and with them the tinkle of laughter and music .
it was my temper to avoid a crowd and to attach myself fervently to a few .
Gilman &apos;s room was of good size but queerly irregular shape ; the north wall slanting perceptibly inward from the outer to the inner end , while the low ceiling slanted gently downward in the same direction .
advance ; and I will despoil myself still further for thy advantage .
I had never entered the city before , and its ways were unknown to me .
in falling it took the same direction possibly a concerted plot as its fellow .
above all , study innuendo .
he invents and circumvents .
the realities of the world affected me as visions , and as visions only , while the wild ideas of the land of dreams became , in turn , not the material of my every day existence , but in very deed that existence utterly and solely in itself .
his weakness still imparts anxiety to this feeling , his ignorance prevents entire intimacy ; but we begin to respect the future man , and to endeavour to secure his esteem , even as if he were our equal .
his companions came up to assist him , and by the light of their lantern they found that he had fallen on the body of a man , who was to all appearance dead .
sometimes indeed I wept when my aunt received my caresses with repulsive coldness , and when I looked round and found none to love ; but I quickly dried my tears .
through good report and through ill report , I wrote .
there was that in the manner of the stranger , and in the tremulous shake of his uplifted finger , as he held it between my eyes and the light , which filled me with unqualified amazement ; but it was not this which had so violently moved me .
Nett profit , see Journal , seventy five cents . &quot;
and yet , as I have said , vague new fears hovered menacingly over us ; as if giant bat winged gryphons squatted invisibly on the mountain tops and leered with Abaddon eyes that had looked on trans cosmic gulfs .
it was a large magnificent house , in which doubtless some rich merchant had lived .
it is easiest perhaps to describe by contrast .
Perdita dreaded a fall from his horse , or some similar accident till the woman &apos;s answers woke other fears .
the desolation was complete , and only echoes answered my footfalls .
and , indeed , for the space of three days , the behavior of the heir out Heroded Herod , and fairly surpassed the expectations of his most enthusiastic admirers .
I ran on , careless of outward objects , but trying to master the struggling spirit within me by means of bodily fatigue .
oh , divine was the angel Ermengarde and as I looked down into the depths of her memorial eyes , I thought only of them and of her .
the bell was about to strike , and it was a matter of absolute and pre eminent necessity that every body should look well at his watch .
they capered I sobbed aloud .
neither the care of my flock , nor the change of seasons , were sufficient to tame my eager spirit ; my out door life and unemployed time were the temptations that led me early into lawless habits .
at first I decided that it was the queer other worldly quality of the art which made me uneasy .
but days of peaceful melancholy were of rare occurence : they were often broken in upon by gusts of passion that drove me as a weak boat on a stormy sea to seek a cove for shelter ; but the winds blew from my native harbour and I was cast far , far out untill shattered I perished when the tempest had passed and the sea was apparently calm .
reserve on such a point would be not only useless , but draw down treble misery on us all . &quot;
her temper was unalterably sweet ; and although firm and resolute on any point that touched her heart , she was yielding to those she loved .
&quot; that awful night . . .
their features were indistinguishable , but their crouching , shambling gait was abominably repellent .
at the end of this time I arose , and found myself freer from absolute pain of any kind than I had been during the last hour and a quarter of my ascension .
his air appalled me but anything was preferable to the solitude which I had so long endured , and I even welcomed his presence as a relief .
I ask it of business men .
this time his delight at having me present was real ; for his distorted face gleamed with relief while he clutched at my coat as a child clutches at its mother &apos;s skirts .
the hours passed on unperceived ; my head ached with thought , the nerves seemed teeming with the over full fraught I clasped my burning brow , as if my fevered hand could medicine its pain .
the passage proved of great length , and terminated in a massive oaken door , dripping with the moisture of the place , and stoutly resisting all my attempts to open it .
the frank and unsuspicious mind of Adrian , gifted as it was by every natural grace , endowed with transcendant powers of intellect , unblemished by the shadow of defect unless his dreadless independence of thought was to be construed into one , was devoted , even as a victim to sacrifice , to his love for Evadne .
the difficulty has been strangely exaggerated and misapprehended .
this is , in fact , the case .
there were more swaths and monstrous prints , but there was no longer any house .
this , to my mother , was more than a duty ; it was a necessity , a passion remembering what she had suffered , and how she had been relieved for her to act in her turn the guardian angel to the afflicted .
love I must steel my heart against that ; expel it from its tower of strength , barricade it out : the fountain of love must cease to play , its waters be dried up , and all passionate thoughts attendant on it die that is to say , the love which would rule me , not that which I rule .
the members of the orchestra , who , for the last fifteen minutes , had been seemingly too much intoxicated to do duty , now sprang all at once to their feet and to their instruments , and , scrambling upon their table , broke out , with one accord , into , &quot; Yankee doodle , &quot; which they performed , if not exactly in tune , at least with an energy superhuman , during the whole of the uproar .
I would feign to die ; my contented heirs would seize upon my wealth , and I should purchase freedom .
understand , eh ? &quot; uncle .
allow me this once to prescribe for you .
there were tales of dancing lights in the dark of the moon , and of chill winds when the night was warm ; of wraiths in white hovering over the waters , and of an imagined city of stone deep down below the swampy surface .
deep and terrible , the snarling , half mad growls and barks continued ; always in mounting volume , but with hideously significant pauses .
to some , though , the greatest mystery of all is the variety of utterly inexplicable objects objects whose shapes , materials , types of workmanship , and purposes baffle all conjecture found scattered amidst the wreckage in evidently diverse states of injury .
the woods , and lakes , and mountains which I have loved , have for me a thousand associations ; and thou , oh , Sun hast smiled upon , and borne your part in many imaginations that sprung to life in my soul alone , and which will die with me .
&quot; o God &quot; half shrieked Ligeia , leaping to her feet and extending her arms aloft with a spasmodic movement , as I made an end of these lines &quot; O God O divine Father shall these things be undeviatingly so ? shall this conqueror be not once conquered ?
they were continually together , nor could the unfortunate Evadne read the monosyllable that designated his name , without , at the same time , being presented with the image of her who was the faithful companion of all his labours and pleasures .
&quot; it left me also in the dark , &quot; replied Legrand , &quot; for a few days ; during which I made diligent inquiry , in the neighborhood of Sullivan &apos;s Island , for any building which went by the name of the &apos; Bishop &apos;s Hotel ; &apos; for , of course , I dropped the obsolete word &apos; hostel . &apos; gaining no information on the subject , I was on the point of extending my sphere of search , and proceeding in a more systematic manner , when , one morning , it entered into my head , quite suddenly , that this &apos; Bishop &apos;s hostel &apos; might have some reference to an old family , of the name of Bessop , which , time out of mind , had held possession of an ancient manor house , about four miles to the northward of the Island .
when the blood was washed away the wrist wound proved very slight , and Gilman puzzled over the location of the two tiny punctures .
and yet the feat is only so evidently feasible that the sole wonder is why men have scrupled to attempt it before .
that night at the mansion . . .
when truth and experience failed to reveal it , he sought it in fancy and illusion , and found it on his very doorstep , amid the nebulous memories of childhood tales and dreams .
his speech was very curious , an extreme form of Yankee dialect I had thought long extinct ; and I studied it closely as he sat down opposite me for conversation .
love of pleasure , and the softer sensibilities of our nature , made a prominent part of his character , conquering the conqueror ; holding him in at the moment of acquisition ; sweeping away ambition &apos;s web ; making him forget the toil of weeks , for the sake of one moment &apos;s indulgence of the new and actual object of his wishes .
these radii are connected at the outer extremities by two bands of flattened wire the whole in this manner forming the framework of the screw , which is completed by a covering of oiled silk cut into gores , and tightened so as to present a tolerably uniform surface .
I soon found that I had overtaxed my strength and that I must repose before I could continue my journey .
but what human language can adequately portray that astonishment , that horror which possessed me at the spectacle then presented to view ?
his face , almost hidden by a long beard which grew high on the cheeks , seemed abnormally ruddy and less wrinkled than one might expect ; while over a high forehead fell a shock of white hair little thinned by the years .
after that I dumped earth only along the other two sides ; working more slowly and donning my gas mask as the smell grew .
&quot; we are both unhappy &quot; he would say to me ; &quot; I have told you my melancholy tale and we have wept together the loss of that lovely spirit that has so cruelly deserted me ; but you hide your griefs : I do not ask you to disclose them , but tell me if I may not console you .
but no ; that would be yielding a point to the said John Smith .
my obvious friendliness , however , finally melted him ; and he grudgingly motioned to me to follow him up the dark , creaking , and rickety attic stairs .
&quot; the disturbance in the street had been occasioned by the frantic behavior of a man with a musket .
I followed , when I could , the courses of the rivers ; but the daemon generally avoided these , as it was here that the population of the country chiefly collected .
I chose therefore the evening of one of these days for my attempt .
I felt that it came from the bed of ebony the bed of death .
it produced also the sound of quacking in the most natural manner .
met Snap in the street , groggy .
man rules now where They ruled once ; They shall soon rule where man rules now .
the buildings were all in fair condition , and included perhaps a dozen shops in current operation ; of which one was a grocery of the First national chain , others a dismal restaurant , a drug store , and a wholesale fish dealer &apos;s office , and still another , at the eastern extremity of the square near the river , an office of the town &apos;s only industry the Marsh Refining Company .
I ardently desired the acquisition of knowledge .
the path was so serpentine , that at no moment could I trace its course for more than two or three paces in advance .
this aunt , to whose care I was afterwards consigned , has often related to me the effect that this catastrophe had on my father &apos;s strong and susceptible character .
I am given to strange phantasms , yet am never weak enough to believe in them ; so on this occasion contented myself with questioning the labourers , who slept very late and recalled nothing of the previous night save misty dreams of shrill sounds .
again young men went forth , but not quite as did the young men of those other days .
they would ask me to guide them , but I couldn &apos;t go back there even if I knew the way .
all attention was now directed to the letter , the descent of which , and the consequences attending thereupon , had proved so fatally subversive of both person and personal dignity to his Excellency , the illustrious burgomaster Mynheer Superbus Von Underduk .
&quot; busied in this , I walked on for several hours , during which the mist deepened around me to so great an extent that at length I was reduced to an absolute groping of the way .
his heart , exhausted by his early sufferings , reposes like a new healed limb , and shrinks from all excitement .
many futile attempts had been made to set aside this singular bequest ; their ex post facto character rendered them abortive ; but the attention of a jealous government was aroused , and a decree finally obtained , forbidding all similar accumulations .
those victims who could recall the event without hysteria swore that the creatures had acted less like men than like unthinkable automata guided by the wax faced leader .
it now , however , continued for some moments , and gathered intensity as it continued .
the sallow cheeks paled again , and the thick lips fell open , disclosing the repulsively rotten fangs of the degenerate Joe Slater .
in silence , but without respite , she had brooded over these scenes .
but though we both entertained these ideas , we differed in their application .
it is now ten earthly years since I underwent what you undergo yet the remembrance of it hangs by me still .
he had known of the dreaded volume since his sixteenth year , when his dawning love of the bizarre had led him to ask queer questions of a bent old bookseller in Chandos Street ; and he had always wondered why men paled when they spoke of it .
once they had quite a few mills , but nothing &apos;s left now except one gold refinery running on the leanest kind of part time .
we noted the marine fauna and flora , and read much on the subject in the books I had carried with me for spare moments .
here and there were slimy objects of puzzling contour , draped with weeds and encrusted with barnacles , which Klenze declared must be ancient ships lying in their graves .
a fainter trail led away toward the woods , but it soon gave out .
about half an hour afterwards he attempted again to speak but was unable ; he pressed my hand feebly , and his eyes closed forever , while the irradiation of a gentle smile passed away from his lips .
he had been in the conning tower using the searchlight when I saw him bound into the library compartment where I sat reading , and his face at once betrayed him .
&quot; I am , &quot; said she , &quot; the cousin of the unhappy child who was murdered , or rather his sister , for I was educated by and have lived with his parents ever since and even long before his birth .
my person was hideous and my stature gigantic .
they had now evidently reached the strong hold of the pestilence .
for this ghastly experimenting it was necessary to have a constant supply of very fresh human bodies ; very fresh because even the least decay hopelessly damaged the brain structure , and human because we found that the solution had to be compounded differently for different types of organisms .
I felt a creeping of the flesh as Dupin asked me the question .
it had given them a child ; but it had not detracted from the personal attractions of my sister .
it spoke of other days , of days of concord and order ; it was associated with times when plague was not , and man lived beyond the shadow of imminent fate .
from this dizzy point he was dashed at once as he unawares congratulated himself on his felicity .
by that noon fully three quarters of the men and boys of Dunwich were trooping over the roads and meadows between the new made Whateley ruins and Cold Spring Glen , examining in horror the vast , monstrous prints , the maimed Bishop cattle , the strange , noisome wreck of the farmhouse , and the bruised , matted vegetation of the fields and roadsides .
at length the slight quivering of an eyelid , and immediately thereupon , an electric shock of a terror , deadly and indefinite , which sends the blood in torrents from the temples to the heart .
I fancied them as they were in their prime , when Greenwich was a placid village not yet engulfed by the town ; and in the hours before dawn , when all the revellers had slunk away , I used to wander alone among their cryptical windings and brood upon the curious arcana which generations must have deposited there .
try and its creations , philosophy and its researches and classifications , alike awoke the sleeping ideas in my mind , and gave me new ones .
where had he got this outré thing ?
one or two pictures of these singular women have in fact , been miraculously preserved .
Kuranes had not lingered , but had plodded on as though summoned toward some goal .
when I say &quot; mind , &quot; I mean the unparticled or ultimate matter ; by &quot; matter , &quot; I intend all else .
separate events fitted together uncannily , and seemingly irrelevant details held mines of hideous possibilities .
the landlord of the &quot; crow , &quot; who is a hospitable man , finding that my trunk contained sufficient to indemnify him for any little trouble he might take in my behalf , sent forthwith for a surgeon of his acquaintance , and delivered me to his care with a bill and receipt for ten dollars .
he addressed himself to the wealthy of the land ; he made proposals in parliament little adapted to please the rich ; but his earnest pleadings and benevolent eloquence were irresistible .
it delights me to find , too , that the animals soon get accustomed to the thing , and would rather have the appendages cut off than otherwise .
from that day I took a liking to the &quot; Goosetherumfoodle , &quot; and the result was I soon saw into the very depths of its literary merits , and did not fail to expatiate upon them , in the &quot; Turtle , &quot; whenever a fitting opportunity occurred .
we were all now anxious to test the efficiency of the rudder and screw , and we put them both into requisition forthwith , for the purpose of altering our direction more to the eastward , and in a line for Paris .
once a post rider said he saw an old man chasing and calling to a frightful loping , nameless thing on Meadow Hill in the thinly moonlit hours before dawn , and many believed him .
if so , we must imagine some reversion for the Chess Player plays precisely as a man would not .
garish daylight shewed only squalor and alienage and the noxious elephantiasis of climbing , spreading stone where the moon had hinted of loveliness and elder magic ; and the throngs of people that seethed through the flume like streets were squat , swarthy strangers with hardened faces and narrow eyes , shrewd strangers without dreams and without kinship to the scenes about them , who could never mean aught to a blue eyed man of the old folk , with the love of fair green lanes and white New England village steeples in his heart .
here it was that Old Bugs dropped his mop .
the disease had sharpened my senses not destroyed not dulled them .
it was about three in the afternoon when we arrived .
opinions were divided as to notifying the Massachusetts State Police , and the negative finally won .
the only disturbing element was the talk among the superstitious foreigners , whose imaginations had become highly excited .
much astonished at this , one of them crawled under the bed , and looking into the trunk , said : &apos; no wonder we couldn &apos;t move it why it &apos;s full to the brim of old bits of brass &apos; putting his feet , now , against the wall so as to get a good purchase , and pushing with all his force , while his companions pulled with all theirs , the trunk , with much difficulty , was slid out from under the bed , and its contents examined .
now all was ready and Woodville came .
then I left the cell and went silently to my room .
farewell &quot; His voice had recovered its bland tone , but a dark cloud still hung on his features .
it was not his rank after all that I have said , surely it will not be suspected that it was Adrian &apos;s rank , that , from the first , subdued my heart of hearts , and laid my entire spirit prostrate before him .
a person passing out through this window might have reclosed it , and the spring would have caught but the nail could not have been replaced .
the impatience with which , while in society , the ills that afflicted my species inspired me , were softened by loneliness , when individual suffering was merged in the general calamity , strange to say , less afflicting to contemplate .
farewell sky , and fields and woods ; the lovely flowers that grow on thee ; thy mountains thy rivers ; to the balmy air and the strong wind of the north , to all , a last farewell .
but the newcomer did not speak nor did I hear any sound whatever during all the immediately following moments .
the wind has been blowing steadily and strongly from the north east all day and so far fortune seems bent upon favoring us .
it was strange when you heard him talk to see how he passed over this lapse of time as a night of visions ; while the remembrances of his youth standing seperate as they did from his after life had lost none of their vigour .
the idea of such tentacles gave me an unexplained thrill , and I stopped to analyse my reason for believing these mounds glacial phenomena .
I therefore kept my three duns working with great diligence , pounding down ice around the central cask , and stirring the acid in the others .
&quot; monster &quot; I began in a tone of the deepest indignation &quot; monster and double winded idiot dost thou , whom for thine iniquities it has pleased heaven to accurse with a two fold respimtion dost thou , I say , presume to address me in the familiar language of an old acquaintance ?
it was about the witch light .
the sight of the awful and majestic in nature had indeed always the effect of solemnizing my mind and causing me to forget the passing cares of life .
&quot; I am proud , &quot; he replied , &quot; to acknowledge that it is at least in some measure . &quot;
who has not , a hundred times , found himself committing a vile or a silly action , for no other reason than because he knows he should not ?
it is reported that Mr. Slyass received no less than thirty seven and a half cents for his inimitable paper on &apos; Pigs.&apos;
he decided to live on a rarer plane , and furnished his Boston home to suit his changing moods ; one room for each , hung in appropriate colours , furnished with befitting books and objects , and provided with sources of the proper sensations of light , heat , sound , taste , and odour .
a mummy again endued with animation could not be so hideous as that wretch .
what was , or had been , on the couch I cannot and dare not say here .
charge of Cornelius Wyatt , Esq .
as we traversed the various counties of fertile England , all wore an exhilarating appearance to my companion , who had been so long secluded by disease from the enjoyments of weather and scenery .
the patriots were victorious ; a spirit of conquest was instilled ; and already they looked on Constantinople as their own .
Warren always dominated me , and sometimes I feared him .
if my daring and courage obtained for me a kind of respectful aversion , her youth and sex , since they did not excite tenderness , by proving her to be weak , were the causes of numberless mortifications to her ; and her own disposition was not so constituted as to diminish the evil effects of her lowly station .
this assurance he gave readily enough ; reminding me that the reanimating solution was never used without careful tests as to life ; since it could have no effect if any of the original vitality were present .
and when I received their cold answers and heard the harsh , unfeeling reasoning of these men , my purposed avowal died away on my lips .
who was the soundest of their logicians ?
high is the wall and strong the barrier that separate me from my Star of Beauty .
here the first part of the manuscript ended , but references to certain of the scattered notes gave me much material for thought so much , in fact , that only the ingrained scepticism then forming my philosophy can account for my continued distrust of the artist .
this mist , or spray , was no doubt occasioned by the clashing of the great walls of the funnel , as they all met together at the bottom but the yell that went up to the Heavens from out of that mist , I dare not attempt to describe .
having passed with him some wretched years , she died , at least her condition so closely resembled death as to deceive every one who saw her .
starting once more , I crossed the street to the right hand side in order to edge around into Babson as inconspicuously as possible .
if then we regard the Chess Player as a machine , we must suppose , what is highly improbable , that its inventor preferred leaving it incomplete to perfecting it a supposition rendered still more absurd , when we reflect that the leaving it incomplete would afford an argument against the possibility of its being a pure machine the very argument we now adduce . .
none knew of their love except their own two hearts ; yet although in all things else , and even in this he dreaded the censure of his companions , for thus truly loving one inferior to him in fortune , nothing was ever able for a moment to shake his purpose of uniting himself to her as soon as he could muster courage sufficient to meet those difficulties he was determined to surmount .
&quot; having determined upon your subject , you must next consider the tone , or manner , of your narration .
it was the wild thunder of the mountain , raised to hysteric fury I must have been crawling upward for some time , so that the surface was now quite near .
thus it is said the immense river Alfred passed , unscathed , and unwetted , beneath the sea .
&quot; light , feeling , and sense will pass away ; and in this condition must I find my happiness .
in the week that followed we were all very nervous , watching for the Dacia .
it was a window in the rear of the east gable end , close against the hill ; and no one could imagine why a cleated wooden runway was built up to it from the ground .
its hoary hieroglyphs seemed to stir some faint recollection in his untutored but active mind , though he could not possibly have beheld their like before .
them haouses north o &apos; the river betwixt Water an &apos; Main Streets is full of &apos; em them devils an &apos; what they brung an &apos; when they git ready . . . .
not even the roof was visible ; and though I took a step or two inside after testing the floor with a staff , I dared not go farther .
about five feet and a half from the casement in question there runs a lightning rod .
&apos;Jist so , &apos; replied Bob , with a wink and a frown &apos; I &apos;ll be into &apos; em , I &apos;ll let &apos; em know a thing or two ; but in de meantime , that ere paragrab ?
this kept my soul alive , and gave me a few of those dreams and visions for which the poet far within me cried out .
now , a not over acute man , in pursuing such an object would be nearly certain to overdo the matter .
his possessions had been always ample ; but , upon the attainment of his one and twentieth year , it was discovered that one of those extraordinary freaks of Fate had been played in his behalf which startle the whole social world amid which they occur , and seldom fail radically to alter the entire moral constitution of those who are their objects .
the painted birds flitted through the shades ; the careless deer reposed unhurt upon the fern the oxen and the horses strayed from their unguarded stables , and grazed among the wheat , for death fell on man alone .
he is alone with the dead .
oh , surely the spirit that inhabits and guards this place has a soul more in harmony with man than those who pile the glacier or retire to the inaccessible peaks of the mountains of our own country . &quot;
then , in &apos; , the new squire catched them at their doings , and stood still at what he saw .
it is represented by two others to have been &apos; quick and unequal.&apos;
perhaps the idea of Grogswigg nearly coincident with that of Kroutaplenttey is to be cautiously preferred .
the poetic delicacy of Arthur Jermyn was the more remarkable because of his uncouth personal appearance .
Carrington Harris , last of the male line , knew it only as a deserted and somewhat picturesque centre of legend until I told him my experience .
perhaps the ex landlord &apos;s rat poison had worked after all , for not long after his departure the place became a neighbourhood nuisance .
the French are the originators of this particular deception ; but if a term is of any importance if words derive any value from applicability then &apos; analysis &apos; conveys &apos; algebra &apos; about as much as , in Latin , &apos; ambitus &apos; implies &apos; ambition , &apos; &apos; religio &apos; &apos; religion , &apos; or &apos; homines honesti , &apos; a set of honorablemen . &quot;
I regretted that no physician was included in our complement of officers , since German lives are precious ; but the constant ravings of the two concerning a terrible curse were most subversive of discipline , so drastic steps were taken .
in the son of Sir Philip Jermyn the now accepted family peculiarity took a strange and fatal turn .
the rabble pressed impetuously upon us , harrassing us with their spears , and overwhelming us with flights of arrows .
but in all ages the great obstacles to advancement in Art have been opposed by the so called men of science .
when at last I turned and faced the seat of the sound , my eyes must have started from their orbits at the sight that they beheld .
in the first place , I said to myself , these things repelled because of the utter inhumanity and callous cruelty they shewed in Pickman .
rule applies but to the merits of denial to the excellencies which refrain .
I found myself driving a flourishing trade , and soon became a marked man upon &apos; change .
perhaps the better course will be to unite the two in their extremes .
the door was opened with difficulty .
the chanting in the depths for such the sound now seemed to be grew in volume and distinctness ; and we felt irresistibly urged out into the storm and thence to the gaping blackness of the shaft .
Abstractions may amuse and exercise , but take no hold on the mind .
my own strength is exhausted , and I must tell , in a few words , what remains of my hideous narration .
and this steadfast adherence to principle , with rigorous disregard of the conflicting exception , is a sure mode of attaining the maximum of attainable truth , in any long sequence of time .
there was always scope for fear so long as anything I loved remained behind .
the next morning , at daybreak , I summoned sufficient courage and unlocked the door of my laboratory .
the street I had come down was Federal .
&quot; if ever island were enchanted , &quot; said I to myself , &quot; this is it .
in four days we arrived at the harbour to which we were bound .
&quot; God bless me , did you ever behold a finer figure ? &quot;
I had an obscure feeling that all was not over and that he would still commit some signal crime , which by its enormity should almost efface the recollection of the past .
&quot; one of us &quot; said Blackwood .
the figure was tall and gaunt , and shrouded from head to foot in the habiliments of the grave .
&quot; soon a gentle light stole over the heavens and gave me a sensation of pleasure .
&quot; the Parisian police , &quot; he said , &quot; are exceedingly able in their way .
noises still continued in Federal Street , and as I glanced behind me I thought I saw a gleam of light near the building through which I had escaped .
I had never before beheld one killed by pestilence .
&quot; Jupiter , &quot; said he , when we reached its foot , &quot; come here was the skull nailed to the limb with the face outwards , or with the face to the limb ? &quot; &quot; de face was out , massa , so dat de crows could get at de eyes good , widout any trouble . &quot;
up from the sea rose lordly terraces of verdure , tree studded , and shewing here and there the gleaming white roofs and colonnades of strange temples .
creatures are thoughts of God .
&quot; rise , my poor girl , &quot; said Elizabeth ; &quot; why do you kneel , if you are innocent ?
you shall see him , and judge for yourself ; although I fear this visit , useless to him , will be insufferably painful to you .
with her details we shrink from competition .
I was , besides , endued with a figure hideously deformed and loathsome ; I was not even of the same nature as man .
the nauseous words seemed well nigh incredible in that yellow sunlight , with the clatter of cars and motor trucks ascending clamorously from crowded Fourteenth Street , yet I confess that I believed them then .
besides , them that lives here shoo off as many strangers as they kin , an &apos; encourage the rest not to git very Cur &apos;ous , specially raound night time .
Idris appeared suspended for a moment , and then with extreme sweetness , she said , &quot; Lord Raymond , I confide in your goodness and honour . &quot;
&quot; there are two brothers , I know ; and both have attained reputation in letters .
whether he had killed the ancient crone he did not know , but he let her rest on the floor where she had fallen .
there were arabesque figures with unsuited limbs and appointments .
or if you must for yourself , why for others ?
the words must be all in a whirl , like a humming top , and make a noise very similar , which answers remarkably well instead of meaning .
I hallooed to him with all my strength , and presently he came reeling aft .
as they exhausted the produce of one spot , they went on to another .
we were immured in ice and should probably never escape , but they feared that if , as was possible , the ice should dissipate and a free passage be opened , I should be rash enough to continue my voyage and lead them into fresh dangers , after they might happily have surmounted this .
there is then no analogy whatever between the operations of the Chess Player , and those of the calculating machine of Mr. Babbage , and if we choose to call the former a pure machine we must be prepared to admit that it is , beyond all comparison , the most wonderful of the inventions of mankind .
at last I reached a conclusion which wrought in me great wonder why I had not arrived at it before .
in a quarter or two after publication of the article or in a year or two we make no objection to giving our note at nine months : provided always that we can so arrange our affairs as to be quite certain of a &apos; burst up &apos; in six .
the sky was growing lighter , and there were signs that the storm had worn itself away .
and then I fell suddenly calm , and lay smiling at the glittering death , as a child at some rare bauble .
and because all the other frames were long since fallen , I knew that it was the grisly glassless frame of that daemoniac attic window .
what I did see was not spectacular , not grotesque or terrifying , yet it removed my last vestige of trust in my consciousness .
we cannot suppose him , on the night of the fatal Sunday , both innocent himself and incognizant of an outrage committed .
this account filled me with curiosity .
Ann White , with her Exeter superstition , had promulgated the most extravagant and at the same time most consistent tale ; alleging that there must lie buried beneath the house one of those vampires the dead who retain their bodily form and live on the blood or breath of the living whose hideous legions send their preying shapes or spirits abroad by night .
Lavinny &apos;s read some , an &apos; has seed some things the most o &apos; ye only tell abaout .
minute fungi overspread the whole exterior , hanging in a fine tangled web work from the eaves .
thus I returned home , and entering the house , presented myself to the family .
yet this evil sprang necessarily from the leading evil , Knowledge .
&quot; it is possible , &quot; I replied ; and her countenance became radiant with pleasure .
to an anomalous species of terror I found him a bounden slave .
the difficulty , too , of forcing my way through the mazes of the company contributed not a little to the ruffling of my temper ; for I was anxiously seeking , let me not say with what unworthy motive the young , the gay , the beautiful wife of the aged and doting Di Broglio .
and patriarchs dread lest some day one by one they seek out that inaccessible peak in the sky , and learn what centuried secrets hide beneath the steep shingled roof which is part of the rocks and the stars and the ancient fears of Kingsport .
you will say perhaps that I gradually became fitted to return to society .
is he confined to bed ? &quot; &quot; no , dat he aint he aint find nowhar dat &apos;s just whar de shoe pinch my mind is got to be berry hebby bout poor Massa Will . &quot; &quot; Jupiter , I should like to understand what it is you are talking about .
without certain cause , in the ungoverned madness of fury and despair , the Comte laid hands on the aged wizard , and ere he released his murderous hold his victim was no more .
the universal mind is God .
at six , dinner was announced ; and my host conducted me into a large Salle a manger , where a very numerous company were assembled twenty five or thirty in all .
he was writhing under the bedclothes , and a great red stain was beginning to appear on the blankets .
the Dunwich horror itself came between Lammas and the equinox in , and Dr. Armitage was among those who witnessed its monstrous prologue .
the first check to her duteous demonstrations was a formal intimation from the fallen majesty of England , that I was in no manner to be intruded upon her .
it came again louder and seemingly nearer and then a third time very loud , and then a fourth time with a vigor evidently diminished .
they writhed upon my throat ; their cold lips sought my own ; I was half stifled by their thronging pressure ; disgust , for which the world has no name , swelled my bosom , and chilled , with a heavy clamminess , my heart .
&quot; it is now within a few days of three years since what I am going to tell you occurred .
I was pained at this and sat still watching the operation of the fire .
I found the balloon at an immense height indeed , and the earth &apos;s apparent convexity increased in a material degree .
great God what a scene has just taken place I am yet dizzy with the remembrance of it .
he soon perceived that I disliked the subject ; but not guessing the real cause , he attributed my feelings to modesty , and changed the subject from my improvement , to the science itself , with a desire , as I evidently saw , of drawing me out .
filled with dreary imaginations , I passed through many beautiful and majestic scenes , but my eyes were fixed and unobserving .
Silas was rounding up a stray heifer , but he nearly forgot his mission when he fleetingly spied the two figures in the dim light of his lantern .
it was not the grasping passion of the preceding year , which gave life and individuality to each moment it was not the aching pangs induced by the distresses of the times .
I cannot pretend to give all the &apos; Tea Pot &apos;s &apos; paragraphs verbatim , but one of them runs thus : &apos; oh , yes Oh , we perceive Oh , no doubt The editor over the way is a genius O , my Oh , goodness , gracious what is this world coming to ?
no man dared utter a truth to which he felt himself indebted to his Soul alone .
when I returned to the churchyard place of marble and went down the steps I found the stone trap door immovable ; but I was not sorry , for I had hated the antique castle and the trees .
at the sunset Iranon and small Romnod went forth from Teloth , and for long wandered amidst the green hills and cool forests .
we found her in her flower adorned alcove ; she was reading the newspaper report of the debate in parliament , that apparently doomed her to hopelessness .
others , whose trade was beneficial to the city , or who possessed no other refuge , he provided with advice for better avoiding the epidemic ; relieving overloaded families , supplying the gaps made in others by death .
firmly , composedly , yet with an air of conscious power , he handed his MS. to the devil in waiting , and then , walking leisurely home , retired , with ineffable dignity to bed .
oh , not abhorred They were my brethren , my fellow beings , and I felt attracted even to the most repulsive among them , as to creatures of an angelic nature and celestial mechanism .
what remains to be told is very brief , and may be familiar to you from the newspaper accounts .
that was in days of early love , when I could only hold out the hope , not the assurance of happiness .
in a conspicuous alcove was one fairly well preserved and untenanted casket , adorned with a single name which brought to me both a smile and a shudder .
but Joe Osborn interrupted him to question the Arkham men anew .
it is one of the rarest of accidents that a piece is &apos; torn off , &apos; from any garment such as is now in question , by the agency of a thorn .
the road , after passing the gate , seemed to lie upon a natural ledge , sloping gradually down along the face of the north eastern cliffs .
&quot; Morella &quot; &quot; I repeat I am dying .
as I turned up the stinking black earth in front of the fireplace , my spade causing a viscous yellow ichor to ooze from the white fungi which it severed , I trembled at the dubious thoughts of what I might uncover .
no one would believe it at first ; and even now Elizabeth will not be convinced , notwithstanding all the evidence .
and though poverty , in its excess , might render the sufferer unapt to submit to the supposed degradation of a benefit , the zeal of the benefactor must at last relax him into thankfulness .
very suddenly my attention was arrested by the loud beating of a drum .
bodies were always a nuisance even the small guinea pig bodies from the slight clandestine experiments in West &apos;s room at the boarding house .
just now there is quite a crowd of balloons in sight , and they present a very animated appearance , while the air is resonant with the hum of so many millions of human voices .
near the western extremity , where Fort Moultrie stands , and where are some miserable frame buildings , tenanted , during summer , by the fugitives from Charleston dust and fever , may be found , indeed , the bristly palmetto ; but the whole island , with the exception of this western point , and a line of hard , white beach on the seacoast , is covered with a dense undergrowth of the sweet myrtle , so much prized by the horticulturists of England .
most , I believe , are in Arabic ; and the fiend inspired book which brought on the end the book which he carried in his pocket out of the world was written in characters whose like I never saw elsewhere .
the northward connecting door was wide open , but there was no time to think about checking the already turning lock in the hall .
let the most vigorous of human imaginations but attempt to take a single step toward the comprehension of a circuit so unutterable I would scarcely be paradoxical to say that a flash of lightning itself , travelling forever upon the circumference of this inconceivable circle , would still forever be travelling in a straight line .
it is only necessary to say that his published inferences , in regard to the number of ruffians , have been properly ridiculed as unjust and totally baseless , by all the reputable anatomists of Paris .
thus of the very ancient city of Ib was nothing spared save the sea green stone idol chiselled in the likeness of Bokrug , the water lizard .
our gods have promised us a haven of light beyond death , where there shall be rest without end , and crystal coldness amidst which none shall vex his mind with thought or his eyes with beauty .
it was dated from London ; he had returned I could only relieve my transports by tears , tears of unmingled joy .
another shewed a dance on Copp &apos;s Hill among the tombs with the background of today .
I likewise made a difficult trip to the distant hamlet where the death creature had been burnt , and was little repaid for my trouble .
he would not fear the daggers of Frey Herren .
there was Signor Tintontintino from Florence .
it was as early as that he turned pale when some traveller mentioned the French town of Belloy en Santerre , and friends remembered it when he was almost mortally wounded there in , while serving with the Foreign Legion in the Great War .
it was impossible to guess at the whole of her plan .
Adrian was impatient for our departure , and had advanced far in his preparations .
but all these things I felt not saw .
danced Could it then be possible ?
he was pulled out of bed and into empty space , and for a moment he heard a rhythmic roaring and saw the twilight amorphousness of the vague abysses seething around him .
soon she thought , that all she possessed in the world , except him , might well be spared , nay , given with delight , a propitiatory offering , to secure the supreme good she retained in him .
but the consideration of the atomic constitution being now taken away , the nature of the mass inevitably glides into what we conceive of spirit .
Randolph did not shew his key , but ate his supper in silence and protested only when bedtime came .
our situation was somewhat dangerous , especially as we were compassed round by a very thick fog .
the pilot hardly moved the plumed steerage , and the slender mechanism of the wings , wide unfurled , gave forth a murmuring noise , soothing to the sense .
his grip on my shoulder tightened .
he thought of Wilbur , goatish and ominous , once again , and laughed mockingly at the village rumours of his parentage .
as I advanced I met knots of country people talking earnestly of this event : distant as they were from the apprehended contagion , fear was impressed on every countenance .
here the seal was large and black , with the D cipher ; there it was small and red , with the ducal arms of the S family .
the men shrank back ; they seemed afraid of what they had already done , and stood as if they expected some Mighty Phantom to stalk in offended majesty from the opening .
I dismounted , and called to some sailors who were rowing about the harbour to pull up , and take me into their skiff ; Perdita at the same moment alighted from her carriage she seized my arm &quot; Take me with you , &quot; she cried ; she was trembling and pale ; Clara clung to her &quot; You must not , &quot; I said , &quot; the sea is rough he will soon be here do you not see his boat ? &quot;
in addition to the opinion he entertained that his father was to a degree culpable of neglect towards us , and that he was bound to every possible reparation , he was pleased to say that under all my ruggedness there glimmered forth an elevation of spirit , which could be distinguished from mere animal courage , and that I inherited a similarity of countenance to my father , which gave proof that all his virtues and talents had not died with him .
no one had ever before heard Adrian allude to the rights of his ancestors .
my first moment of positive inspiration must be dated from that ever memorable epoch , when the brilliant conductor of the &quot; Gad Fly , &quot; in the intervals of the important process just mentioned , recited aloud , before a conclave of our apprentices , an inimitable poem in honor of the &quot; Only genuine Oil of Bob , &quot; so called from its talented inventor , my father , and for which effusion the editor of the &quot; Fly &quot; was remunerated with a regal liberality by the firm of Thomas Bob and company , merchant barbers .
it is now , happily , exploded throughout all the Maisons de Sante of France . &quot;
he is solitary ; like our first parents expelled from Paradise , he looks back towards the scene he has quitted .
I beheld rich carpets and silken hangings , ornaments of gold , richly embossed metals , emblazoned furniture , and all the appendages of high rank arranged , so that nothing but what was regal in splendour should reach the eye of one of royal descent .
for although nepenthe has calmed me , I know always that I am an outsider ; a stranger in this century and among those who are still men .
had the furnishings been less humble , the place would have been a collector &apos;s paradise .
this occurred during those rare days in this country , when the sun mounts his etherial throne in unclouded majesty , and the windless atmosphere is as a bath of pellucid and grateful water , wrapping the senses in tranquillity .
I do not think I was either astounded or panic stricken , but I know that I was greatly and permanently changed that night .
she has floated through her winter and through her summer .
a melancholy foreboding assured me that I should never see this place more ; so with careful thought , I noted each tree , every winding of the streamlet and irregularity of the soil , that I might better call up its idea in absence .
&quot; at six o &apos;clock , I perceived a great portion of the earth &apos;s visible area to the eastward involved in thick shadow , which continued to advance with great rapidity , until , at five minutes before seven , the whole surface in view was enveloped in the darkness of night .
Randolph had looked on scenes of fantasy that few others can ever have beheld , and stranger still were some of the qualities which he shewed in relation to very mundane things .
could he but escape and catch a train for Appleton , he reflected , he would consider his education in dissipation quite complete .
by being always allowed to act for himself his character became strongly and early marked and exhibited a various surface on which a quick sighted observer might see the seeds of virtues and of misfortunes .
not speaking French , was examined through an interpreter .
this morning the gale , by , had subsided to an eight or nine knot breeze , for a vessel at sea , and bears us , perhaps , thirty miles per hour , or more .
I disentangled this little tuft from the rigidly clutched fingers of Madame L &apos;Espanaye .
having arranged all this , the rest of the plan is obvious .
it was impossible that human nature could endure this state of intense suffering much longer .
the sea folk in Kingsport look up at that cliff as other sea folk look up at the pole star , and time the night &apos;s watches by the way it hides or shews the Great Bear , Cassiopeia , and the dragon .
we walk the pathless mazes of society , vacant of joy , till we hold this clue , leading us through that labyrinth to paradise .
the panorama ahead had contracted to a street scene , and in spots I could see where a cobblestone pavement and stretches of brick sidewalk had formerly existed .
it took messages betwixt old Keziah and the devil , and was nursed on the witch &apos;s blood which it sucked like a vampire .
&apos;Hateful day when I received life &apos; I exclaimed in agony .
she could not keep in the medium , nor be , as was usual with her , placidly content .
the chant meant only this : &quot; in his house at R &apos;lyeh dead Cthulhu waits dreaming . &quot;
the author &apos;s hypothesis amounted to this that a dwarf actuated the machine .
I sacrifice every feeling for your sake .
indeed , as the period approached , the threat appeared more as a delusion , not to be regarded as worthy to disturb my peace , while the happiness I hoped for in my marriage wore a greater appearance of certainty as the day fixed for its solemnization drew nearer and I heard it continually spoken of as an occurrence which no accident could possibly prevent .
but , with the cipher now before us , all difficulty was removed by the signature .
Madame and Mademoiselle L &apos;Espanaye were not destroyed by spirits .
ceasing after a time my efforts in this direction , I had proceeded back some distance toward the steps , when there suddenly fell to my experience one of the most profound and maddening shocks capable of reception by the human mind .
above the waist it was semi anthropomorphic ; though its chest , where the dog &apos;s rending paws still rested watchfully , had the leathery , reticulated hide of a crocodile or alligator .
Adrian was bred up in solitude , and kept apart from the natural companions of his age and rank .
then I remembered my old wish to gaze from this window , the only window in the Rue d &apos;Auseil from which one might see the slope beyond the wall , and the city outspread beneath .
&quot; by eight o &apos;clock I had actually attained an elevation of seventeen miles above the surface of the earth .
in conclusion , it seized first the corpse of the daughter , and thrust it up the chimney , as it was found ; then that of the old lady , which it immediately hurled through the window headlong .
the will may assent the soul the intellect , never .
I feared to leave her , she looked so wan and faint but in a moment she re acquired animation , and , with that , fear ; and again she implored me not to delay .
they , their Excellencies , met her eyes in each line , mingling an evil potion that poisoned her very blood .
still there is an infinity of mud huts , and abominable hovels .
I postponed this attempt for some months longer , for the importance attached to its success inspired me with a dread lest I should fail .
all here must serve , and song is folly . &quot;
it seemed that after one great shock all other change was trivial to me ; and I walked on wondering when the time would come when we should all four , my dearest father restored to me , meet in some sweet Paradise .
&quot; well , there must be something like that back of the Innsmouth people .
it ran thus : Sir , My friend , M. P. , will hand you this note .
I had travelled , too , so much , as to be quite an adept at the nil admirari ; so I took my seat very coolly at the right hand of my host , and , having an excellent appetite , did justice to the good cheer set before me .
we met , I recall , in a railway station , where he was the centre of a crowd of the vulgarly curious .
that the family of Roulet had possessed an abnormal affinity for outer circles of entity dark spheres which for normal folk hold only repulsion and terror their recorded history seemed to prove .
of this I cannot now speak save to utter my awe at a culture in the full noon of glory when cave dwellers roamed Europe and the Nile flowed unwatched to the sea .
it was all inside the sealed upper part , and from bits of discarded lumber people concluded that the youth and his grandfather had knocked out all the partitions and even removed the attic floor , leaving only one vast open void between the ground story and the peaked roof .
the trim and paled demesne of civilization , which I had before regarded from my wild jungle as inaccessible , had its wicket opened by him ; I stepped within , and felt , as I entered , that I trod my native soil .
begone , vile insect Or rather , stay , that I may trample you to dust And , oh That I could , with the extinction of your miserable existence , restore those victims whom you have so diabolically murdered &quot; &quot; I expected this reception , &quot; said the daemon .
&quot; this was then the reward of my benevolence I had saved a human being from destruction , and as a recompense I now writhed under the miserable pain of a wound which shattered the flesh and bone .
many of the survivors had been bred in luxury their servants were gone , their powers of command vanished like unreal shadows : the poor even suffered various privations ; and the idea of another winter like the last , brought affright to our minds .
the results of partial or imperfect animation were much more hideous than were the total failures , and we both held fearsome recollections of such things .
to day the earth &apos;s diameter was greatly diminished , and the color of the surface assumed hourly a deeper tint of yellow .
he turned towards me , and looked into my eyes with two filmy orbs that distilled the rheum of intoxication .
but this was only a momentary relief and my old habits of feeling returned ; for I was doomed while in life to grieve , and to the natural sorrow of my father &apos;s death and its most terrific cause , immagination added a tenfold weight of woe .
the heroine of the story was a Mademoiselle Victorine Lafourcade , a young girl of illustrious family , of wealth , and of great personal beauty .
&quot; these considerations have led me to think that some good results might ensue from a series of well directed questions propounded to me while mesmerized .
still dazed , he clutched at the spiky thing and staggered downstairs to Landlord Dombrowski &apos;s quarters .
it was the sneer at his style that drove him to desperation .
and when I reached Water Street and looked along it toward the north there was no remaining trace of Zadok Allen .
in a short time I became convinced of his absolute sincerity , for he spoke of the dreams in a manner none could mistake .
suggesting to Munroe that we had better get some light even if more showers came , I unbarred and opened the crude door .
and the voice again said to me as I gazed : &quot; is it not oh is it not a pitiful sight ? &quot; but , before I could find words to reply , the figure had ceased to grasp my wrist , the phosphoric lights expired , and the graves were closed with a sudden violence , while from out them arose a tumult of despairing cries , saying again : &quot; is it not O , God , is it not a very pitiful sight ? &quot;
careful sifting of debris also disclosed many tiny bones of rats caught in the collapse , as well as older rat bones gnawed by small fangs in a fashion now and then highly productive of controversy and reflection .
there was no one on the fourth floor .
without the glare of the parching sun , my journey would have cost me less energy ; indeed , I now felt quite able to perform the ascent which had deterred me at sunset .
told you so , you know .
I found that the youth spent a great part of each day in collecting wood for the family fire , and during the night I often took his tools , the use of which I quickly discovered , and brought home firing sufficient for the consumption of several days .
remain with me till then ; wait till you see the cross on St. Sophia ; and then return to your peaceful glades . &quot;
does that voice no longer &quot; discourse excellent music ? &quot;
and the door whereupon the shadow rested was , if I remember aright , over against the feet of the young Zoilus enshrouded .
&quot; dear , dear Elizabeth &quot; I exclaimed , when I had read her letter : &quot; I will write instantly and relieve them from the anxiety they must feel . &quot;
she blushed and bowed her luxuriant tresses into close contact with those supplied me , temporarily , by Grandjean .
avoiding its strokes they busied themselves with the anointed bandage .
there will be no danger , however , of confounding the compositions .
his fourth was an object of unceasing pursuit ; and he held that , other things being equal , the extent of attainable happiness was in proportion to the spirituality of this object .
before , dark and opaque bodies had surrounded me , impervious to my touch or sight ; but I now found that I could wander on at liberty , with no obstacles which I could not either surmount or avoid .
he was at once a devil and a multitude , a charnel house and a pageant .
his Majesty cursed her masculine habiliments .
and the leader of the caravan wore a head dress with two horns and a curious disc betwixt the horns .
I placed my hand upon the heart and held it there many minutes .
that great numbers of them had actually been killed and removed , just as the wild animals had long been exterminated , we were of course thoroughly convinced ; and we waited apprehensively for further tragedies to occur .
I was not mysanthropic , but I felt that the gentle current of my feelings depended upon my being alone .
the hill noises had been very pronounced during the evening , and dogs barked frantically all night .
and if there be , in what does its nature differ from love founded in long observation and slow growth ?
a small picture presented the interior of an immensely long and rectangular vault or tunnel , with low walls , smooth , white , and without interruption or device .
a mind disposed to lunacy would readily be led away by such suggestions especially if chiming in with favorite preconceived ideas and then I called to mind the poor fellow &apos;s speech about the beetle &apos;s being &quot; the index of his fortune . &quot;
we assembled at Raymond &apos;s house , we and our partizans .
and on the morrow Justine died .
for more than two years I fought off these reflections with partial success .
&quot; good &quot; he replied , &quot; do so ; although hanging is somewhat hacknied .
was passing the house at the time of the shrieks .
we passed through a range of low arches , descended , passed on , and descending again , arrived at a deep crypt , in which the foulness of the air caused our flambeaux rather to glow than flame .
did they really express pain ?
comedy brought with it too great a contrast to the inner despair : when such were attempted , it was not unfrequent for a comedian , in the midst of the laughter occasioned by his disporportioned buffoonery , to find a word or thought in his part that jarred with his own sense of wretchedness , and burst from mimic merriment into sobs and tears , while the spectators , seized with irresistible sympathy , wept , and the pantomimic revelry was changed to a real exhibition of tragic passion .
the rose water with which your tenderness had moistened my lips to the last , affected me with sweet fancies of flowers fantastic flowers , far more lovely than any of the old Earth , but whose prototypes we have here blooming around us .
Balbutius had carelessly refused , on the ground that the villagers &apos; fears were empty , and that the loathsome rites of hill folk were of no concern to the Roman People unless our own citizens were menaced .
outwardly we were doctors only , but beneath the surface were aims of far greater and more terrible moment for the essence of Herbert West &apos;s existence was a quest amid black and forbidden realms of the unknown , in which he hoped to uncover the secret of life and restore to perpetual animation the graveyard &apos;s cold clay .
there was no chance of forcing my head through the mouth of that terrible trap in which it was so fairly caught , and which grew narrower and narrower with a rapidity too horrible to be conceived .
these amiable people to whom I go have never seen me and know little of me .
&quot; I dare not comply , &quot; said Idris , &quot; it would pain him too much .
could it indeed be Rowena at all the fair haired , the blue eyed Lady Rowena Trevanion of Tremaine ?
&apos;Who is there ? &apos; said the old man .
&quot; unkind unkind &quot; exclaimed the poor victim , as with a deep sigh she looked on the waste of waters .
it was on Friday last that we finally resolved to make the experiment of awakening or attempting to awaken him ; and it is the perhaps unfortunate result of this latter experiment which has given rise to so much discussion in private circles to so much of what I cannot help thinking unwarranted popular feeling .
despair not , nor bid me despair What must I do now ?
I would , if I thought that it would lessen your regret , tell you to smile and congratulate me on my departure from the misery you beheld me endure .
the crowd , however , quickly procured and raised a long ladder .
no smile of the heart ever irradiated her fair countenance ; sometimes she forced one , and then gushing tears would flow , and the sea of grief close above these wrecks of past happiness .
we had no station among us , but that which benevolence and prudence gave ; no distinction save between the living and the dead .
I wondered how he could ever again have entered into the offices of life after his wild thoughts seemed to have given him affinity with the unearthly ; while he spoke so tremendous were the ideas which he conveyed that it appeared as if the human heart were far too bounded for their conception .
I entreat you not to reason with me any more .
the sky was clear , the winds had gone down , and the full moon was setting radiantly in the west , when I found myself on the surface of the ocean , in full view of the shores of Lofoden , and above the spot where the pool of the Moskoe ström had been .
then he had been drawn down a lane that led off from the village street toward the channel cliffs , and had come to the end of things to the precipice and the abyss where all the village and all the world fell abruptly into the unechoing emptiness of infinity , and where even the sky ahead was empty and unlit by the crumbling moon and the peering stars .
all her efforts were now directed to the dissembling her internal conflict .
this assumption , then , amounts precisely to this that the murder was not committed on Sunday at all and , if we allow L &apos;Etoile to assume this , we may permit it any liberties whatever .
Joe had been out celebrating the night before it was patriots &apos; Day in Massachusetts and had come home after midnight .
may Eve was Walpurgis Night , when hell &apos;s blackest evil roamed the earth and all the slaves of Satan gathered for nameless rites and deeds .
often the gods of earth visit Hatheg Kla in their ships of cloud , casting pale vapours over the slopes as they dance reminiscently on the summit under a clear moon .
so far as concrete noises went , the rats in the ancient partitions were the worst .
Mr. Wyatt , no doubt , according to custom , was merely giving the rein to one of his hobbies indulging in one of his fits of artistic enthusiasm .
but after a while there was a further clicking in the receiver , and I strained my ears to listen .
it cannot be denied that phrenology and , in great measure , all metaphysicianism have been concocted a priori .
still half dazed , he continued to clutch it as his other hand seized a vacant space on the smooth railing .
we are neither hypocrites or fools for the rest , &apos; dost thou think because thou art virtuous , there shall be no more cakes and ale ? &apos; &quot;
as I looked on him , his countenance expressed the utmost extent of malice and treachery .
he also rowed out twice to the ill regarded island in the river , and made a sketch of the singular angles described by the moss grown rows of grey standing stones whose origin was so obscure and immemorial .
it wou &apos;d afford me gratification to tell more of my experiences with Dr. Johnson and his circle of wits ; but I am an old Man , and easily fatigued .
crossing to where he leaned , I touched his shoulder ; but he did not move .
this was bitter indeed upon poor &quot; Oppodeldoc &quot; ; but , in this instance , the weight of the satire falls upon the &quot; HumDrum , &quot; the &quot; Lollipop , &quot; and the &quot; Goosetherumfoodle , &quot; who are pungently styled &quot; periodicals &quot; in italics , too a thing that must have cut them to the heart .
in the doorway stood a person of such singular appearance that I should have exclaimed aloud but for the restraints of good breeding .
then the sparks played amazingly around the heads of the spectators , and hair stood up on end whilst shadows more grotesque than I can tell came out and squatted on the heads .
these summer people do not believe that the same One has lived in the ancient house for hundreds of years , but cannot prove their heresy to any real Kingsporter .
it seemed that a maternal uncle of mine had been there many years before on a quest much like my own ; and that my grandmother &apos;s family was a topic of some local curiosity .
let me say only , that in Ligeia &apos;s more than womanly abandonment to a love , alas all unmerited , all unworthily bestowed , I at length recognized the principle of her longing with so wildly earnest a desire for the life which was now fleeing so rapidly away .
he had witnessed , when a young man , the abdication of the king , and the amalgamation of the two houses of lords and Commons ; he had sympathized with these popular encroachments , and it had been the business of his life to consolidate and encrease them .
that is to say , she was chatty ; and to be chatty is no slight recommendation at sea .
I knew that the crisis of my disorder had long passed .
it may be as well , however , to premise the cursory observations which I have to offer , by denying , very decidedly , what seems to be a general impression gleaned , as usual in a case of this kind , from the newspapers , viz . : that this discovery , astounding as it unquestionably is , is unanticipated .
my swelling heart involuntarily pours itself out thus .
you know he &apos;s the man &quot; &quot; Man alive , how do you do ? why , how are ye ?
must I then lose this admirable being ?
books in bad shape , and no clear account of any kind of dealings .
I was eight years old then , and it was said that she had wandered off in grief after the suicide of my uncle Douglas , her eldest son .
the floor was sunk in many places ; the walls ragged and bare the ceiling weather stained a tattered bed stood in the corner ; there were but two chairs in the room , and a rough broken table , on which was a light in a tin candlestick ; yet in the midst of such drear and heart sickening poverty , there was an air of order and cleanliness that surprised him .
I was , therefore , in great fear of their leaving me altogether .
she shewed us plainly , that , though she permitted us to assign her laws and subdue her apparent powers , yet , if she put forth but a finger , we must quake .
while we were in earnest discourse , Lord Raymond entered unannounced : I saw Perdita tremble and grow deadly pale , and the cheeks of Idris glow with purest blushes .
high is the palace of Dorieb , and many are the turrets of marble upon its walls .
this odd little gentleman was dressed in a loose surtout of sky blue satin , with tight breeches to match , fastened with silver buckles at the knees .
I say this because from first to last our discoveries partook only of the nature of sensations ; sensations correlated with no impression which the nervous system of normal humanity is capable of receiving .
this I have known ever since I stretched out my fingers to the abomination within that great gilded frame ; stretched out my fingers and touched a cold and unyielding surface of polished glass .
the workmen crossed themselves in fright when they came upon this blasphemy , but later burned candles of gratitude in St. Stanislaus &apos; Church because of the shrill , ghostly tittering they felt they would never hear again .
and the man trembled in the solitude ; but the night waned and he sat upon the rock .
I perceived that the words they spoke sometimes produced pleasure or pain , smiles or sadness , in the minds and countenances of the hearers .
once I thought some chill thing brushed me , and I screamed , but my scream could not be heard above that hideous viol .
the eyes of Idris flashed at this accusation ; she replied , &quot; I do not deny that I love Verney ; prove to me that he is worthless ; and I will never see him more . &quot;
those who are guilty of such horrid crimes , choose darkness rather the light .... Thus we see that if the body found in the river was that of Marie Rogêt , it could only have been in the water two and a half days , or three at the outside .
afraid almost to breathe , we English travellers surveyed with extasy this splendid landscape , so different from the sober hues and melancholy graces of our native scenery .
he revolved a thousand plans by which he should be enabled to prolong the deceit until it might be no longer necessary , and secretly to take his daughter with him when he departed .
in Newburyport they told me that the steam train was the thing to take to Arkham ; and it was only at the station ticket office , when I demurred at the high fare , that I learned about Innsmouth .
my father was a man of rank : he had lost his father early , and was educated by a weak mother with all the indulgence she thought due to a nobleman of wealth .
who , when he makes a choice , says , Thus I choose , because I am necessitated ?
she had grown thin and pale , her eyes filled with involuntary tears , her voice was broken and low .
what do these sounds portend ?
all , in a word , sloped and softened to the south ; and yet the whole vale was engirdled by eminences , more or less high , except at two points .
upon the whole , therefore , I was satisfied with the success of my maiden attempt , and now the only question regarded the disposal I should make of it .
at length the high white steeple of the town met my eyes .
then if I wandered slowly I cheered myself with a sweet song or sweeter day dreams .
we passed a fortnight in these perambulations : my health and spirits had long been restored , and they gained additional strength from the salubrious air I breathed , the natural incidents of our progress , and the conversation of my friend .
this morning proved an epoch in my voyage .
I knew well therefore what would be my father &apos;s feelings , but I could not tear my thoughts from my employment , loathsome in itself , but which had taken an irresistible hold of my imagination .
would they wrest his hard earned reward from him , to bestow it on one , who , never having mingled in public life , would come a tyro to the craft , in which he was an adept .
with a confusion of ideas only to be accounted for by my extreme youth and my want of a guide on such matters , I had retrod the steps of knowledge along the paths of time and exchanged the discoveries of recent inquirers for the dreams of forgotten alchemists .
by twelve o &apos;clock the circular centre had materially decreased in circumference , and by seven P.M.
there were several deep scratches just below the chin , together with a series of livid spots which were evidently the impression of fingers .
in this analysis of the operations of the Automaton , we have purposely avoided any allusion to the manner in which the partitions are shifted , and it will now be readily comprehended that this point is a matter of no importance , since , by mechanism within the ability of any common carpenter , it might be effected in an infinity of different ways , and since we have shown that , however performed , it is performed out of the view of the spectators .
from one of these depended a short chain , from the other a padlock .
who blame thee for thy visionary hours , or denounce those occupations as a wasting away of life , which were but the overflowings of thine everlasting energies ?
these colors had now assumed , and were momentarily assuming , a startling and most intense brilliancy , that gave to the spectral and fiendish portraitures an aspect that might have thrilled even firmer nerves than my own .
a sickened , sensitive shadow writhing in hands that are not hands , and whirled blindly past ghastly midnights of rotting creation , corpses of dead worlds with sores that were cities , charnel winds that brush the pallid stars and make them flicker low .
it was no business of mine , to be sure , but with none the less pertinacity did I occupy myself in attempts to resolve the enigma .
my own desire certainly was that he should not be removed from the spot where he now lay .
have I not suffered enough , that you seek to increase my misery ?
this much he could not civilly refrain from telling the librarian the same erudite Henry Armitage A.M. Miskatonic , Ph.
the accompanying soldiers received , with national vivacity , enthusiastic pleasure from the sight of beautiful nature .
the hour must now have grown very late .
the only thing really incompatible with the latter view was the rapidity with which the creature must have travelled in order to perform all the deeds attributed to it .
the wind was high , and the waves continually threatened the safety of my little skiff .
nor you , nor any other Theseus , can thread the labyrinth , to which perhaps some unkind Ariadne has the clue . &quot;
beneath the centre of the balloon , was a frame of light wood , about nine feet long , and rigged on to the balloon itself with a network in the customary manner .
and I believed , because of the masses of local tradition I had unearthed in my search with Arthur Munroe , that the ghost was that of Jan Martense , who died in .
she reproached herself with the crime of his death ; guilt and its punishments appeared to surround her ; in vain she endeavoured to allay remorse by the memory of her real integrity ; the rest of the world , and she among them , judged of her actions , by their consequences .
the ex queen had none of the virtues of domestic life , and those of courage and daring which she possessed were rendered null by the secession of her husband : she despised him , and did not care to conceal her sentiments .
now his father has it in Salem you know Pickman comes of old Salem stock , and had a witch ancestor hanged in .
Le Commerciel , however , a print of extensive influence , was earnest in combating this popular idea .
at the expiration of this period , there issued from the distended and motionless jaws a voice such as it would be madness in me to attempt describing .
they rang throughout the seven rooms loudly and clearly for the prince was a bold and robust man , and the music had become hushed at the waving of his hand .
I held him out my hand , however , in token of amity and I never yet knew the dog who was proof against such an appeal to his courtesy .
upon mankind at large the events of very early existence rarely leave in mature age any definite impression .
then he grew very red then hideously pale then , as if highly amused with what I had insinuated , he began a loud and boisterous laugh , which , to my astonishment , he kept up , with gradually increasing vigor , for ten minutes or more .
&apos;Say , rather , to set an X ample to posterity , &apos; suggested a fifth .
the result is the immersion of the mouth and nostrils , and the inception , during efforts to breathe while beneath the surface , of water into the lungs .
he would be lying in the dark fighting to keep awake when a faint lambent glow would seem to shimmer around the centuried room , shewing in a violet mist the convergence of angled planes which had seized his brain so insidiously .
to those who love as ourselves , in what respect differs a year from an hour ?
from early youth he had considered his pedigree with complacency , and bitterly lamented his want of wealth .
Pickman reappeared with his smoking weapon , cursing the bloated rats that infested the ancient well .
the hungry horse was neighing repeatedly and almost uncannily , and he vaguely wished it would stop .
gay blasphemy poured in torrents from my lips , and in my shocking sallies I heeded no law of God , Man , or Nature .
on my right the Hudson glittered wickedly , and in the distance ahead I saw the unhealthy shimmer of a vast salt marsh constellated with nervous fireflies .
my grief was terrible : I had no friend but her in the whole world .
the party in the kiosk were sepoys and British officers , headed by Hastings .
it was a night of unusual gloom .
at last I said to her , &quot; There is Englefield Green ; there the inn .
Elwood had been lost too deeply in slumber to hear and stop him .
getting up , for this purpose , an ordinary conversation in a private company , he insinuated his case to the physician , as that of an imaginary individual .
but as many years passed without calamity even the priests laughed and cursed and joined in the orgies of the feasters .
exalted beyond thought would be he whose work should gain acceptance , and for this honour Kalos and Musides were invited to compete .
but the moment of escape had arrived .
was this one of those inns where travellers were slain for their money ?
if we desire to ascertain how near , apparently , a lens would bring the satellite or any distant object , we , of course , have but to divide the distance by the magnifying or , more strictly , by the space penetrating power of the glass .
the person to whom I addressed myself added that Justine had already confessed her guilt .
I also secured in the car a pair of pigeons and a cat .
the words of one of these rhapsodies I have easily remembered .
it was of a dull red , and had little perceptible train .
her garter is no proof whatever nor is her shoe for shoes and garters are sold in packages .
but in consenting so to accompany this individual , for whatever purpose to her mother known or unknown , she must have thought of her expressed intention when leaving home , and of the surprise and suspicion aroused in the bosom of her affianced suitor , St. Eustache , when , calling for her , at the hour appointed , in the Rue des Drômes , he should find that she had not been there , and when , moreover , upon returning to the pension with this alarming intelligence , he should become aware of her continued absence from home .
such were the professor &apos;s words rather let me say such the words of the fate enounced to destroy me .
what interested me was the uniform air of archaism as displayed in every visible detail .
these are the true names of the places but why it has been thought necessary to name them at all , is more than either you or I can understand .
P. The beginning but where is the beginning ?
this was possible ; but it was a mere conjecture unfounded on any fact .
&quot; the place for an artist to live is the North End .
I did not feel shocked or overcome : I believe that I asked one or two questions and listened to the answers .
&quot; wherefore ? &quot; asked Raymond &quot; My dear fellow , I have done nothing else than reflect on this step the live long summer ; and be assured that Adrian has condensed an age of reflection into this little moment .
Balbutius pressed his objections , and was sustained by Asellius , who appeared to hold all the natives in extreme contempt while at the same time deeming it inadvisable to excite them .
I fairly chuckled at the idea ; and perhaps he heard me ; for he moved on the bed suddenly , as if startled .
it would imperatively lead him to despise all the ordinary nooks of concealment .
but I discovered no trace of him and was beginning to conjecture that some fortunate chance had intervened to prevent the execution of his menaces when suddenly I heard a shrill and dreadful scream .
it was observed , as especially remarkable , that this lowering of the pupil was accompanied by the profuse out flowing of a yellowish ichor from beneath the lids of a pungent and highly offensive odor .
amid frequent and thoughtful endeavors to remember ; amid earnest struggles to regather some token of the state of seeming nothingness into which my soul had lapsed , there have been moments when I have dreamed of success ; there have been brief , very brief periods when I have conjured up remembrances which the lucid reason of a later epoch assures me could have had reference only to that condition of seeming unconsciousness .
something had lain between me and the window that night , but I shuddered whenever I could not cast off the instinct to classify it .
the mode in which he spoke of my father was gratifying to my vanity ; the veil which he delicately cast over his benevolence , in alledging a duteous fulfilment of the king &apos;s latest will , was soothing to my pride .
it was impossible to reach him ; the emergency admitted of no delay ; and so , with a bitter struggle , I resigned him to his fate , fastened myself to the cask by means of the lashings which secured it to the counter , and precipitated myself with it into the sea , without another moment &apos;s hesitation .
not one of you , O fated crowd , can escape not one not my own ones not my Idris and her babes Horror and misery Already the gay dance vanished , the green sward was strewn with corpses , the blue air above became fetid with deathly exhalations .
they were present in loathsome profusion , and I saw to my horror that they overlapped ; that they were semi fluid and capable of passing through one another and through what we know as solids .
when for a moment I imagined that his manner was cold I would fretfully say to him &quot; I was at peace before you came ; why have you disturbed me ?
this valley is more wonderful and sublime , but not so beautiful and picturesque as that of Servox , through which I had just passed .
he said that he was wearing away his time fruitlessly where he was , that letters from the friends he had formed in London desired his return to complete the negotiation they had entered into for his Indian enterprise .
though the golden light of late afternoon gave the ancient roofs and decrepit chimneys an air of mystic loveliness and peace , I could not help glancing over my shoulder now and then .
I know not how it is , but this peculiar expression of the eye , wreathing itself occasionally into the lips , is the most powerful , if not absolutely the sole spell , which rivets my interest in woman .
I had not visited it since Raymond &apos;s protectorate ; a period conspicuous for a numerous attendance of members , for the eloquence of the speakers , and the warmth of the debate .
burnt alive to ashes , my body dispersed by the four winds , I might never lie in the tomb of the Hydes Was not my coffin prepared for me ?
let us leave &quot; life , &quot; that we may live .
&quot; my lot has not been fortunate .
the old man would then rise from the floor in anger and excitement , muttering threats and warnings , and seeking to dissuade the novices from embarking upon their course of &quot; seeing life as it is &quot; .
early in the morning , before she had risen , he cleared away the snow that obstructed her path to the milk house , drew water from the well , and brought the wood from the outhouse , where , to his perpetual astonishment , he found his store always replenished by an invisible hand .
but as I gazed about me , I could not bring myself to believe that the wealth of any subject in Europe could have supplied the princely magnificence which burned and blazed around .
I was too much taken up by my own occupations and feelings to attend much to this , and then indeed I hardly noticed more than the bare surface of events as they passed around me ; but I now remember that my father was restless and uneasy whenever this person visited us , and when we talked together watched us with the greatest apparent anxiety although he himself maintained a profound silence .
often she passed whole hours walking up and down the paths of the woods ; she wove garlands of flowers and ivy , or watched the flickering of the shadows and glancing of the leaves ; sometimes she sat beside a stream , and as her thoughts paused , threw flowers or pebbles into the waters , watching how those swam and these sank ; or she would set afloat boats formed of bark of trees or leaves , with a feather for a sail , and intensely watch the navigation of her craft among the rapids and shallows of the brook .
the gentle and domestic manners it described , combined with lofty sentiments and feelings , which had for their object something out of self , accorded well with my experience among my protectors and with the wants which were forever alive in my own bosom .
she adored his virtues , and with mixed contempt and indignation she saw Evadne pile drear sorrow on his head , for the sake of one who hardly marked her .
a mask of black silk entirely covered his face .
the eternal click clak , click clak , click clak of the clock was the most melodious of music in my ears , and occasionally even put me in mind of the graceful sermonic harangues of Dr. Ollapod .
believe me , my dearest friend , that there is a joy that the sun and earth and all its beauties can bestow that you will one day feel .
but stay I really believe that I have nothing less than a five dollar bill , even there .
the rapping was now repeated with greater insistence , and this time bore a hint of metal .
&quot; say no more , my good young friend , &quot; he said kindly , pressing my hand , &quot; join me now in a glass of Sauterne . &quot;
the Parisian police , so much extolled for acumen , are cunning , but no more .
ah Victor , be assured that your cousin and playmate has too sincere a love for you not to be made miserable by this supposition .
delight awoke in every heart , delight and exultation ; for there was peace through all the world ; the temple of Universal Janus was shut , and man died not that year by the hand of man .
the sullen , odd eyed Martenses , whose unclean animal aspect shocked him , told him in broken gutturals that Jan was dead .
the young Frederick , during the conference , seemed agitated by a variety of emotions .
we have leapt the chasm I told you of , and now , mark me , Mathilda , we are to find flowers , and verdure and delight , or is it hell , and fire , and tortures ?
here , indeed , was the fairest field for the display of imagination in the endless combining of forms of novel beauty ; the elements to enter into combination being , by a vast superiority , the most glorious which the earth could afford .
it was in July , , that the bad luck regarding specimens began to turn .
his accents whenever he addressed me were cold and constrained although his voice would tremble when he perceived that my full heart choked the answer to words proffered with a mien yet new to me .
in a few seconds I forced him by sheer strength against the wainscoting , and thus , getting him at mercy , plunged my sword , with brute ferocity , repeatedly through and through his bosom .
Mecca had never before been so crowded with pilgrims ; yet the Arabs neglected to pillage the caravans , but , humble and weaponless , they joined the procession , praying Mahomet to avert plague from their tents and deserts .
if we are lost , my mad schemes are the cause .
in the dim dawn they came upon the village which Kuranes had seen alive in his childhood , and asleep or dead in his dreams .
I made them as distinct as they are in the original insect , and I presume that is sufficient . &quot;
Clerval spoke thus as we hurried through the streets ; the words impressed themselves on my mind and I remembered them afterwards in solitude .
either he dodged , however , or my aim was inaccurate ; for all I accomplished was the demolition of the crystal which protected the dial of the clock upon the mantel piece .
these reflections determined me , and I resolved to remain silent .
&quot; here still ? &quot; he cried .
this had occupied her in her lonely cottage , when she quitted her Greek friend &apos;s protection .
there isn &apos;t Bonfanti &apos;s equal , however , in America , for really good articles of this description .
suddenly a wind blowing from over the flowery meadows and leafy woods brought a scent at which I trembled .
it was nearly a gone case with me then just touch and go for six weeks the physicians giving me up and all that sort of thing .
&quot; you are mistaken , &quot; said he . &quot; I will exert myself , and if it is in my power to seize the monster , be assured that he shall suffer punishment proportionate to his crimes .
it was written , he remembered , by a child of three and a half who looked like a lad of twelve or thirteen .
the plastering had here , in great measure , resisted the action of the fire a fact which I attributed to its having been recently spread .
freed from all that was positively disproved , this mass of information stood thus : Marie Rogêt left the residence of her mother , in the Rue Pavée St. Andrée , about nine o &apos;clock in the morning of Sunday June the twenty second , .
could I have torn out my tongue , I would have done it , but a rough voice resounded in my ears a rougher grasp seized me by the shoulder .
&quot; well now listen if you will venture out on the limb as far as you think safe , and not let go the beetle , I &apos;ll make you a present of a silver dollar as soon as you get down . &quot;
its perfect fullness and tournure were delicious .
you , who so well know the nature of my soul , will not suppose , however , that I gave utterance to a threat .
Thunderlike it reverberated through the sky , while the air was darkened .
different spectators of the game would advise different moves .
as a natural consequence , its velocity was also much greater .
the zodiacal light is probably what the Ancients called Trabes .
yet he enjoys one comfort , the offspring of solitude and delirium ; he believes that when in dreams he holds converse with his friends and derives from that communion consolation for his miseries or excitements to his vengeance , that they are not the creations of his fancy , but the beings themselves who visit him from the regions of a remote world .
the sight was horrible ; still she clung to life , and lamented her mischance with cries and hideous groans ; while the swift advance of the disease shewed , what proved to be the fact , that she could not survive many hours .
he had with him many books , but rarely employed them .
in pace requiescat Una .
hanging was my inevitable fate .
across my chest still lay the heavy arm of the sleeper at my left .
let us not desert our task while there is the slightest hope that we may in a future day do this .
whence could come the dense personnel of such a column as I now beheld ?
I remembered how we delved in this Ghoul &apos;s grave with our spades , and how we thrilled at the picture of ourselves , the grave , the pale watching moon , the horrible shadows , the grotesque trees , the titanic bats , the antique church , the dancing death fires , the sickening odours , the gently moaning night wind , and the strange , half heard , directionless baying , of whose objective existence we could scarcely be sure .
I hope that I am right in this supposition ; for upon it I build my expectation of reading the entire riddle .
and many centuries came and went , wherein Sarnath prospered exceedingly , so that only priests and old women remembered what Taran Ish had scrawled upon the altar of chrysolite .
his personal beauty ; his conversation which glowed with imagination and sensibility ; the poetry that seemed to hang upon his lips and to make the very air mute to listen to him were charms that no one could resist .
in my education my father had taken the greatest precautions that my mind should be impressed with no supernatural horrors .
Saturday afternoon he felt able to go over to the library and summon Rice and Morgan for a conference , and the rest of that day and evening the three men tortured their brains in the wildest speculation and the most desperate debate .
when I opened it to the title page my wonder grew even greater , for it proved to be nothing less rare than Pigafetta &apos;s account of the Congo region , written in Latin from the notes of the sailor Lopez and printed at Frankfort in .
oh What a miserable night I passed The cold stars shone in mockery , and the bare trees waved their branches above me ; now and then the sweet voice of a bird burst forth amidst the universal stillness .
these cycles of experience , of course , all stem from that worm riddled book .
Perdita had not moved ; her eyes fixed on the ground , her cheeks pale , her very lips white , motionless and rigid , every feature stamped by woe , she sat .
it was his belief that , considering the great amount of text involved , the writer would scarcely have wished the trouble of using another speech than his own , save perhaps in certain special formulae and incantations .
only an open window told what had become of our assailant , and many wondered how he himself had fared after the terrific leap from the second story to the lawn which he must have made .
greatly excited by these discoveries , I hurried home , procured a telescope , and returned to the rock .
we were sure that the lone tree on Maple Hill had been struck again , and Munroe rose from his box and went to the tiny window to ascertain the damage .
I wished the servants were about , and did not like it when he said they had all left three days previously .
altogether , the nervous strain upon West must have been tremendous .
my friend , having presented me , mentioned my desire to inspect the establishment , and received Monsieur Maillard &apos;s assurance that he would show me all attention , now took leave , and I saw him no more .
each of these is tenanted by a distinct variety of organic , rudimental , thinking creatures .
she died calmly , and her countenance expressed affection even in death .
for this science a peculiar turn of mind gave him instinctively the cue , while his physical appearance afforded him unusual facilities for carrying his prospects into effect .
and was it only fancy which induced me to believe that , with the increase of my own firmness , that of my tormentor underwent a proportional diminution ?
the moderns , however , have brought it to a perfection never dreamed of by our thick headed progenitors .
&quot; dat name and vat you ave for say to dat name ?
who he was , none could tell , but he was of the old native blood and looked like a Pharaoh .
two months passed thus , when at last we obtained a promise of Raymond &apos;s release .
he hoped at last to obtain what he had never obtained before a rekindled spark of reason and perhaps a normal , living creature .
&quot; nor was it , &quot; said Templeton , with an air of deep solemnity , &quot; yet it would be difficult to say how otherwise it should be termed .
then one night in the dream city of Zakarion I found a yellowed papyrus filled with the thoughts of dream sages who dwelt of old in that city , and who were too wise ever to be born in the waking world .
what was the meaning of this new thing ?
as I stood at the door , on a sudden I beheld a stream of fire issue from an old and beautiful oak which stood about twenty yards from our house ; and so soon as the dazzling light vanished , the oak had disappeared , and nothing remained but a blasted stump .
the &quot; flight of Thomas O &apos;Rourke , &quot; is a jeu d &apos; esprit not altogether contemptible , and has been translated into German .
alas , for Raymond the prayer of his youth is wasted the hopes of his manhood are null &quot; From my dungeon in yonder city I cried , soon I will be thy lord When Evadne pronounced my death , I thought that the title of Victor of Constantinople would be written on my tomb , and I subdued all mortal fear .
his face wore a leaden hue ; the eyes were utterly lustreless ; and the emaciation was so extreme that the skin had been broken through by the cheek bones .
it is written on the brick cylinders of Kadatheron that the beings of Ib were in hue as green as the lake and the mists that rise above it ; that they had bulging eyes , pouting , flabby lips , and curious ears , and were without voice .
he then proceeded , in a hurried and agitated manner , to extract from a side pocket in his surtout a large morocco pocket book .
sunrise ? &quot; &quot; nonsense no the bug .
still more I scraped , and then abruptly I leaped out of the hole and away from the filthy thing ; frantically unstopping and tilting the heavy carboys , and precipitating their corrosive contents one after another down that charnel gulf and upon the unthinkable abnormality whose titan elbow I had seen .
my life , previously held at small value , now became dearer to me each day , as I delved deeper and deeper into the mysteries of the hidden world of black magic .
he changed his business , but something always preyed upon him .
we can imagine it only the accident of an individual .
a single grain of gimlet dust , for example , would have been as obvious as an apple .
but while they in health sported about her , she could cherish contentment and hope .
no crystal could be clearer than its waters .
the day was clear , but a high wind had sprung up ; and Birch was glad to get to shelter as he unlocked the iron door and entered the side hill vault .
in the deepest fountain of my heart the pulses were stirred ; around , above , beneath , the clinging memory as a cloak enwrapt me .
Morella &apos;s erudition was profound .
immensely wealthy too a widow , and a great match has just arrived from Paris . &quot; &quot; do you know her ? &quot; &quot; yes ; I have the honor . &quot;
we found a party of soldiers gathered round it .
he desired to go ; each day he expected to be infected by pestilence , each day he was unable to resist the gentle violence of Adrian &apos;s detention .
its walls were hung with tapestry and bedecked with manifold and multiform armorial trophies , together with an unusually great number of very spirited modern paintings in frames of rich golden arabesque .
there seemed but little hope for the child ; how much less than for the mother but now , from the interior of that dark niche which has been already mentioned as forming a part of the Old republican prison , and as fronting the lattice of the Marchesa , a figure muffled in a cloak , stepped out within reach of the light , and , pausing a moment upon the verge of the giddy descent , plunged headlong into the canal .
affairs went swimmingly , and I believed the balloon to be going upward with a speed increasing momently although I had no longer any means of ascertaining the progression of the increase .
my mother had much desired to have a daughter , but I continued their single offspring .
with a steady movement cautious , sidelong , shrinking , and slow I slid from the embrace of the bandage and beyond the reach of the scimitar .
I arose at once , and putting the parchment securely away , dismissed all farther reflection until I should be alone .
yet her features were not of that regular mould which we have been falsely taught to worship in the classical labors of the heathen .
Elizabeth was of a calmer and more concentrated disposition ; but , with all my ardour , I was capable of a more intense application and was more deeply smitten with the thirst for knowledge .
the points of the compass were clear to me , and I was glad that all the street lights were turned off , as is often the custom on strongly moonlit nights in unprosperous rural regions .
&quot; alas &quot; said she . &quot; how shall I ever again believe in human goodness ?
he spoke to me without invitation , noting my mood and glances as I studied certain knockered doorways above iron railed steps , the pallid glow of traceried transoms feebly lighting my face .
at night I could see her shadow on the walls of her apartment ; by day I viewed her in her flower garden , or riding in the park with her usual companions .
&quot; what do you mean by interfering with a gentleman in his pleasures ? &quot;
and this in the supposition that the edge is unhemmed .
the conclusion of this speech convinced my father that my ideas were deranged , and he instantly changed the subject of our conversation and endeavoured to alter the course of my thoughts .
we have had men , for example , who fancied themselves chickens .
American officers in the Philippines find certain tribes bothersome about this time , and New York policemen are mobbed by hysterical Levantines on the night of March .
it then indicated an altitude on my part of , feet , or five and twenty miles , and I consequently surveyed at that time an extent of the earth &apos;s area amounting to no less than the three hundred and twentieth part of its entire superficies .
wherever seen , the most intense curiosity was excited by its appearance , and numerous have been the attempts , by men of all classes , to fathom the mystery of its evolutions .
now the mathematicians who saw that the results of any given impulse were absolutely endless and who saw that a portion of these results were accurately traceable through the agency of algebraic analysis who saw , too , the facility of the retrogradation these men saw , at the same time , that this species of analysis itself , had within itself a capacity for indefinite progress that there were no bounds conceivable to its advancement and applicability , except within the intellect of him who advanced or applied it .
the wet wood which I had placed near the heat dried and itself became inflamed .
meditation , painful continual thought only encreased my doubts I dared not commit the blasphemy of ascribing the slightest evil to a beneficent God To whom then should I ascribe the creation ?
he paused and nodded to me familiarly , while his bells jingled .
now , years after their passing , I gazed at their pictured faces with a measurably heightened feeling of repulsion and alienation .
to rudimental beings , organs are the cages necessary to confine them until fledged .
it came at length , however , and I immediately went on board .
and the whole seizure , progress and termination of the disease , were the incidents of half an hour .
in this way we were enabled to dispense with an expensive body of keepers . &quot;
I can hardly prevent myself from hastening immediately to you but I am necessarily detained a week and I write because if you come here I may see you somewhat sooner . &quot;
the pig which is corpulent and lazy is occupied now in picking up the stray leaves that fall from the cabbages , and now in giving a kick behind at the gilt repeater , which the urchins have also tied to his tail in order to make him look as handsome as the cat .
it was the Frye incident all over again , and nothing dead or living was found in either of the collapsed shells which had been the Bishop house and barn .
she said , tapping me under the chin .
a parasol lying upon a newly turfed ground , might , in a single week , be entirely concealed from sight by the upspringing grass .
they mock me whilst I sleep , and whilst the squat yellow foe may be creeping silently upon us .
from various arms of this tree hung cages of different kinds .
that abominable society took charge at last , and we don &apos;t know where he is buried .
a kind of dark , slimy trail led from the open bathroom door to the hall door , and thence to the desk , where a terrible little pool had accumulated .
yet this has but to be seen to become the rage that is , with those who could afford it at the cost of their entire patrimony .
as we reached the bottom of the damp stairs he turned his flashlight to a corner of the large open space at hand , revealing the circular brick curb of what was evidently a great well in the earthen floor .
at this moment a melancholy howl struck on our ears ; it was repeated ; &quot; hark &quot; cried Clara , &quot; he is there ; that is Florio , my father &apos;s dog . &quot;
I presume you smile at the sequitur .
it will be remembered that , on the thirteenth , the earth subtended an angular breadth of twenty five degrees .
it was now very distinct , and appeared of a much darker hue than the waters of the ocean .
the circumstance to which I allude is the early age at which all the Comtes of my line had met their end .
the earliest indication I had of this was a low moaning cry from the depth of the recess .
the roof of the northern wing was merely an extension of a portion of the main roof .
and never a paragraph .
Diana filled up all his heart : he felt as if by his union with her he had received a new and better soul .
it was an odd cry , and all the more terrible because it was answered .
reflecting upon better times , I have not scrupled to ascertain their ways and adopt their dress and manners ; an indulgence which offends none if practiced without ostentation .
nothing daunted at sounds which , of such a nature , at such a time , and in such a place , might have curdled the very blood in hearts less irrevocably on fire , the drunken couple rushed headlong against the door , burst it open , and staggered into the midst of things with a volley of curses .
it was a sight for the lovers of the human race to enjoy ; to behold , as in ancient times , the patriarchal modes in which the variety of kindred and friendship fulfilled their duteous and kindly offices .
the game now commences the Automaton taking the first move .
by the virtues that I once possessed , I demand this from you .
many of those who remained , secluded themselves ; some had laid up stores which should prevent the necessity of leaving their homes ; some deserted wife and child , and imagined that they secured their safety in utter solitude .
at noon , we pitched our tents in some shady valley , or embowering wood among the mountains , while a stream prattling over pebbles induced grateful sleep .
thus ended my hopes of the widow by an accident which could not have been anticipated , to be sure , but which the natural sequence of events had brought about .
although I could distinctly see the bottom , yet , heaving the lead , I found the ship in fifteen fathoms .
many times I considered Satan as the fitter emblem of my condition , for often , like him , when I viewed the bliss of my protectors , the bitter gall of envy rose within me .
many of them had been Alfred &apos;s playmates , before they became his school fellows .
&quot; quick before it &apos;s too late &quot; I tried not to heed him ; tried to break through the paralysis which held me , and to fulfil my vow to rush down to his aid .
on the table were a few books , a large , square , crystal bottle of some novel perfume , a plain ground glass astral not solar lamp with an Italian shade , and a large vase of resplendently blooming flowers .
&quot; the sight of this monster rather relieved than heightened my terrors for I now made sure that I dreamed , and endeavored to arouse myself to waking consciousness .
it was plainly unhealthy , perhaps because of the dampness and fungous growth in the cellar , the general sickish smell , the draughts of the hallways , or the quality of the well and pump water .
Perdita gasped : &quot; well , &quot; she cried , &quot; well , go on &quot; &quot; That is all this paper tells all .
but does not The Most High know all ?
upon reading these various extracts , they not only seemed to me irrelevant , but I could perceive no mode in which any one of them could be brought to bear upon the matter in hand .
I told him why the boy had gone to that shunned , deserted house , and remarked that he ought to be interested , since he believed that windows retained latent images of those who had sat at them .
the old man seemed a little staggered by the question , and for some moments made no reply .
the memory of what he had been faded away as years passed ; and he who before had been as a part of themselves and of their hopes was now no longer counted among the living .
you speak of rudimental &quot; beings . &quot;
the Superintendent did not reproach them .
the putting them in the smallest possible minion , that was the rub thereby insinuating their lowness their baseness , while we stood looking down upon them in gigantic capitals oh it was too bitter it was wormwood it was gall .
the expression on his face , a face ghastly enough in repose , was beyond description .
one man moved in a positively simian way , with long arms frequently touching the ground ; while another figure robed and tiaraed seemed to progress in an almost hopping fashion .
newspaper men were harder to manage , but seemed largely to coöperate with the government in the end .
as I closed the door behind me and descended the dripping steps by the light of my lone candle , I seemed to know the way ; and though the candle sputtered with the stifling reek of the place , I felt singularly at home in the musty , charnel house air .
I shall now proceed to lay before you the result of an attempt so apparently audacious in conception , and , at all events , so utterly unparalleled in the annals of mankind .
the Society had acquired it directly from the pawnbroker , at once giving it a display worthy of its quality .
it had been found cast aside with a mass of papers of old date , and accident alone brought it to light .
an incision of some extent had been actually made in the abdomen , when the fresh and undecayed appearance of the subject suggested an application of the battery .
whether the dreams brought on the fever or the fever brought on the dreams Walter Gilman did not know .
it was here that the Whateleys used to build their hellish fires and chant their hellish rituals by the table like stone on May Eve and Hallowmass .
Lionel , you cannot understand what woman &apos;s love is .
two years after this event Caroline became his wife .
I had begun my adjuration with solemnity and an awe which almost assured me that the shades of my murdered friends heard and approved my devotion , but the furies possessed me as I concluded , and rage choked my utterance .
what did their tears imply ?
you will return and again seek their kindness , and you will meet with their detestation ; your evil passions will be renewed , and you will then have a companion to aid you in the task of destruction .
it might be pure energy a form ethereal and outside the realm of substance or it might be partly material ; some unknown and equivocal mass of plasticity , capable of changing at will to nebulous approximations of the solid , liquid , gaseous , or tenuously unparticled states .
absolute coalescence is absolute density .
at all events , they encircled , and at times partially overshadowed , a mouth utterly unequalled .
he resolved to investigate the matter if reports of his sleep walking continued , and thought of sprinkling flour on the floor of the corridor to see where his footsteps might lead .
the next day a very troublesome situation was created by the indisposition of some of the crew .
motion is the action of mind not of thinking .
before Christmas half England was under water .
the very excess of our misery carried a relief with it , giving sublimity and elevation to sorrow .
with one mighty sweep of its potent weapon , all caution , all care , all prudence were levelled low : death sat at the tables of the great , stretched itself on the cottager &apos;s pallet , seized the dastard who fled , quelled the brave man who resisted : despondency entered every heart , sorrow dimmed every eye .
he had , it seems , planned in vain when choosing the stoutest coffin for the platform ; for no sooner was his full bulk again upon it than the rotting lid gave way , jouncing him two feet down on a surface which even he did not care to imagine .
&quot; it will make no difference , &quot; I said : &quot; I can call at the office in the morning and apologize ; in the meantime what can be the matter with the clock ? &quot;
in the evening the young girl and her companion were employed in various occupations which I did not understand ; and the old man again took up the instrument which produced the divine sounds that had enchanted me in the morning .
such happiness , goodness , and religion inhabited the mind of Perdita .
the brows , slightly irregular in outline , had the same tint .
and Pompey , my negro sweet Pompey how shall I ever forget thee ?
in the midst of his greatest suspense and fear as to the event , he remembered the festival given in his honour , by Perdita ; in his honour then , when misery and death were affixing indelible disgrace to his name , honour to him whose crimes deserved a scaffold ; this was the worst mockery .
every thing in the English constitution had been regulated for the better preservation of peace .
the gold was abandoned .
a blush spread over the cheek of the lovely girl Alas , replied she what a tale must I relate what dark phrenzied passions must I unfold When you Diotima lived on earth your soul seemed to mingle in love only with its own essence to be unknowing of the various tortures which that heart endures who if it has not sympathized with has been witness of the dreadful struggles of a soul enchained by dark deep passions which were its hell yet from which it could not escape Are there in the peaceful language used by the inhabitants of these regions words burning enough to paint the tortures of the human heart Can you understand them ? or can you in any way sympathize with them alas though dead I do and my tears flow as when I lived when my memory recalls the dreadful images of the past As the lovely girl spoke my own eyes filled with bitter drops the spirit of Fantasia seemed to fade from within me and when after placing my hand before my swimming eyes I withdrew it again I found myself under the trees on the banks of the Tiber The sun was just setting tinging with crimson the clouds that floated over St. Peters all was still no human voice was heard the very air was quiet I rose bewildered with the grief that I felt within me the recollection of what I had heard I hastened to the city that I might see human beings not that I might forget my wandering recollections but that I might impress on my mind what was reality what was either dream or at least not of this earth The Corso of Rome was filled with carriages and as I walked up the Trinita Dei &apos; Montes I became disgusted with the crowd that I saw about me the vacancy want of beauty not to say deformity of the many beings who meaninglessly buzzed about me I hastened to my room which overlooked the whole city which as night came on became tranquil Silent lovely Rome I now gaze on thee thy domes are illuminated by the moon and the ghosts of lovely memories float with the night breeze among thy ruins contemplating thy loveliness which half soothes my miserable heart I record what I have seen Tomorrow I will again woo Fantasia to lead me to the same walks invite her to visit me with her visions which I before neglected Oh let me learn this lesson while yet it may be useful to me that to a mind hopeless unhappy as mine a moment of forgetfullness a moment in which it can pass out of itself is worth a life of painful recollection .
as I looked at him I saw that the back of his head was almost as hairless as his face , having only a few straggling yellow strands upon a grey scabrous surface .
the world may well be challenged to produce so rich a galaxy of genius .
she would ramble to the most unfrequented places , and scale dangerous heights , that in those unvisited spots she might wrap herself in loneliness .
this turn of fortune revives me .
&quot; eh bien mon ami &quot; she resumed with a certain empressment of manner that rather surprised me &quot; eh bien mon ami , you have earnestly besought of me a favor which you have been pleased to denominate priceless .
her woman &apos;s heart was not adamant , and this last lesson of love sufficed to soften it .
for crouched within that centuried coffin , embraced by a close packed nightmare retinue of huge , sinewy , sleeping bats , was the bony thing my friend and I had robbed ; not clean and placid as we had seen it then , but covered with caked blood and shreds of alien flesh and hair , and leering sentiently at me with phosphorescent sockets and sharp ensanguined fangs yawning twistedly in mockery of my inevitable doom .
she indeed veiled her grief and strove to act the comforter to us all .
her voice grew feebler , her speech interrupted ; a few convulsive movements , and her muscles relaxed , the limbs fell , no more to be sustained , one deep sigh , and life was gone .
why I thought it could help me , I do not know .
with this deep consciousness of what they owed towards the being to which they had given life , added to the active spirit of tenderness that animated both , it may be imagined that while during every hour of my infant life I received a lesson of patience , of charity , and of self control , I was so guided by a silken cord that all seemed but one train of enjoyment to me .
I was followed immediately afterward by my poodle .
I looked about the immense attic room with the sloping south wall , dimly lit by rays which the every day eye cannot see .
you must pardon me if I regard any interruption in your correspondence as a proof that your other duties are equally neglected . &quot;
we assembled generally at seven o &apos;clock of an evening , once a week , at the Turk &apos;s Head , in Gerrard Street , Soho , till that tavern was sold and made into a private dwelling ; after which event we mov &apos;d our Gatherings successively to Prince &apos;s in Sackville Street , Le Tellier &apos;s in Dover Street , and Parsloe &apos;s and The thatched House in St. James &apos;s Street .
believe nothing you hear , and only one half that you see .
September th It is past ; I am returning to England .
I had imbibed a prescience of our Fate from comparison of China the simple and enduring , with Assyria the architect , with Egypt the astrologer , with Nubia , more crafty than either , the turbulent mother of all Arts .
how was it possible you should know I was thinking of ? &quot;
you are well acquainted with my failure and how heavily I bore the disappointment .
I can recommend you to him with confidence , &quot; here the General bowed , &quot; and assure you that I have the greatest pleasure in so doing . &quot;
I would retire to the Continent and become a nun ; not for religion &apos;s sake , for I was not a Catholic , but that I might be for ever shut out from the world .
the man escaping by the string of turbans was Cheyte Sing himself .
let us weep for our brethren , though we can never experience their reverse .
I had feelings of affection , and they were requited by detestation and scorn .
alas the sun shone on blighted fruit ; I did not revive under its radiance for I was too utterly undone to feel its kindly power .
&quot; and a bloody action it was , &quot; continued the thing , as if in a soliloquy ; &quot; but then one mustn &apos;t fight with the Bugaboos and Kickapoos , and think of coming off with a mere scratch .
in the course of discussion , my friend quoted some passages from a writer on landscape gardening who has been supposed to have well treated his theme : &quot; there are properly but two styles of landscape gardening , the natural and the artificial .
and what is more , Mr. Rumgudgeon , it is positively clear that we are all right ; for there can be no philosophical reason assigned why the idea of one of us should have preference over that of the other . &quot;
the most luxurious were often the first to part with their indulgencies .
&quot; I have a tale to relate , &quot; he said , &quot; and much explanation to give concerning the past ; perhaps you can assist me to curtail it .
when he heard the hushed Arkham whispers about Keziah &apos;s persistent presence in the old house and the narrow streets , about the irregular human tooth marks left on certain sleepers in that and other houses , about the childish cries heard near May Eve , and Hallowmass , about the stench often noted in the old house &apos;s attic just after those dreaded seasons , and about the small , furry , sharp toothed thing which haunted the mouldering structure and the town and nuzzled people curiously in the black hours before dawn , he resolved to live in the place at any cost .
he saw me and ceased his preparations , looking at me with a kind of triumph which puzzled and disturbed me .
after the cabinets we took the chairs .
for a decade the annals of the Whateleys sink indistinguishably into the general life of a morbid community used to their queer ways and hardened to their May Eve and All Hallows orgies .
Lavinia was one who would be apt to mutter such things , for she was a lone creature given to wandering amidst thunderstorms in the hills and trying to read the great odorous books which her father had inherited through two centuries of Whateleys , and which were fast falling to pieces with age and worm holes .
in the servant Zenas died , and when Mrs. Harris heard of it she laughed with a shocking delight utterly foreign to her .
I trembled violently , apprehending some dreadful misfortune .
among other things , this : I had been nervous drank too much strong green tea , and slept ill at night in fact , for two nights I could not be properly said to sleep at all .
what flippant Frenchman was it who said in allusion to the well known work of Zimmerman , that , &quot; la solitude est une belle chose ; mais il faut quelqu &apos;un pour vous dire que la solitude est une belle chose ? &quot;
I dared not ask the fatal question , but I was known , and the officer guessed the cause of my visit .
after Adrian &apos;s declared predeliction to the republican form of government , the latter party had nearly died away , chiefless , guideless ; but , when Lord Raymond came forward as its leader , it revived with redoubled force .
&quot; well , Jup , perhaps you are right ; but to what fortunate circumstance am I to attribute the honor of a visit from you to day ? &quot; &quot; what de matter , massa ? &quot; &quot; did you bring any message from Mr. Legrand ? &quot; &quot; no , massa , I bring dis here pissel ; &quot; and here Jupiter handed me a note which ran thus : my dear Why have I not seen you for so long a time ?
during the progress of the game , the figure now and then rolls its eyes , as if surveying the board , moves its head , and pronounces the word echec check when necessary .
when we had patted down the last shovelful of earth we put the specimen in a canvas sack and set out for the old Chapman place beyond Meadow Hill .
what , of itself , would be no evidence of identity , becomes through its corroborative position , proof most sure .
this state of mind preyed upon my health , which had perhaps never entirely recovered from the first shock it had sustained .
be sure and abuse a man named Locke .
this approach , however , was still impetuous in the extreme ; and it soon became alarmingly certain that , although I had probably not been deceived in the expectation of an atmosphere dense in proportion to the mass of the satellite , still I had been wrong in supposing this density , even at the surface , at all adequate to the support of the great weight contained in the car of my balloon .
must I say that I felt all the horrors of the damned ?
in reading history we are chiefly struck by the generosity and self devotion that follow close on the heels of crime , veiling with supernal flowers the stain of blood .
you know , it takes profound art and profound insight into Nature to turn out stuff like Pickman &apos;s .
my notice was soon afterwards attracted by the dusky red appearance of the moon , and the peculiar character of the sea .
hey , boy ? an &apos; what did they all haowl on May Eve , an &apos; agin the next Hallowe &apos;en ?
nine tenths of the passengers would have abandoned the ship rather than take passage with a dead body .
the defeat became total ; the cannon ceased to roar ; the infantry rallied , and horse pursued the flying Turks along the dreary plain ; the staff of Raymond was dispersed in various directions , to make observations , and bear commands .
&quot; how ? &quot; said he . &quot; Amontillado ?
one favorite volume was a small octavo edition of the Directorium Inquisitorium , by the Dominican Eymeric de Gironne ; and there were passages in Pomponius Mela , about the old African Satyrs and OEgipans , over which Usher would sit dreaming for hours .
it was a mere head and shoulders , done in what is technically termed a vignette manner ; much in the style of the favorite heads of Sully .
no wonder that the attendant should interpret as phrensy the harrowing maledictions of the grief struck old man .
I had turned to a neighbouring shelf and was examining its meagre literary contents an eighteenth century Bible , a pilgrim &apos;s progress of like period , illustrated with grotesque woodcuts and printed by the almanack maker Isaiah Thomas , the rotting bulk of Cotton Mather &apos;s Magnalia Christi Americana , and a few other books of evidently equal age when my attention was aroused by the unmistakable sound of walking in the room overhead .
I had no conception that vessels ever came so far north and was astounded at the sight .
I will not sully your imagination by recounting my combats , my self anger and my despair .
&quot; an evening journal of yesterday , refers to a former mysterious disappearance of Mademoiselle Rogêt .
for an instant I dared to shake off my chains and look around me with a free and lofty spirit , but the iron had eaten into my flesh , and I sank again , trembling and hopeless , into my miserable self .
I found myself within a strange city , where all things might have served to blot from recollection the sweet dreams I had dreamed so long in the Valley of the Many Colored Grass .
but I am a blasted tree ; the bolt has entered my soul ; and I felt then that I should survive to exhibit what I shall soon cease to be a miserable spectacle of wrecked humanity , pitiable to others and intolerable to myself .
these feelings dictated my answer to my father .
the words thou speakest are blasphemy , for the gods of Teloth have said that toil is good .
madness was in all the Jermyns , and people were glad there were not many of them .
&quot; this , &quot; I soliloquized , tumbling over a carcass , puffy , bloated , and rotund &quot; this has been , no doubt , in every sense of the word , an unhappy an unfortunate man .
in her youth she had been beautiful , and even at eighty two , retained the majestic height , the sculptural contour of head , the fine eyes and the Grecian nose of her girlhood .
the senseless spirit of conquest and thirst of spoil blinded them , while with insane fury they deluged the country in ruin .
he did not explain himself , nor did I make any remark on his reply .
if we imagine but one violator , we can conceive , and thus only conceive , the struggle of so violent and so obstinate a nature as to have left the &apos; traces &apos; apparent .
the studding sail is now bent upon the ship , and the thoughtless touches of the brush are spread out into the word discovery .
John A B C. ? why , bless me , he &apos;s the Ma a an &quot; &quot; Mr.
he bore in one hand an instrument composed of an assemblage of steel rings , and shook them vigorously as he ran .
the sound came again it was a sigh .
these characters , as any one might readily guess , form a cipher that is to say , they convey a meaning ; but then , from what is known of Kidd , I could not suppose him capable of constructing any of the more abstruse cryptographs .
by its aid I measured the irregularities of the clock upon the mantel , and of the watches of the attendants .
&quot; I deprive you of your parent and only friend .
after Brown &apos;s death in , the new firm of Nicholas Brown Co. made him master of the brig prudence , Providence built , of tons , thus enabling him to erect the new homestead he had desired ever since his marriage .
the price of a changeling , I suppose you know the old myth about how the weird people leave their spawn in cradles in exchange for the human babes they steal .
he concluded a somewhat droll speech with a compliment upon what he was pleased to term the tact of Dupin , and made him a direct , and certainly a liberal proposition , the precise nature of which I do not feel myself at liberty to disclose , but which has no bearing upon the proper subject of my narrative .
he stumbled and fell this consequence was inevitable .
one of my first duties on my recovery was to introduce Clerval to the several professors of the university .
for my own part , I begin to love him as a brother , and his constant and deep grief fills me with sympathy and compassion .
to day I became strongly impressed with the idea , that the balloon was now actually running up the line of apsides to the point of perigee in other words , holding the direct course which would bring it immediately to the moon in that part of its orbit the nearest to the earth .
after an absence of two years I landed on its shores , not daring to make any inquiries , fearful of every remark .
immense and rugged mountains of ice often barred up my passage , and I often heard the thunder of the ground sea , which threatened my destruction .
the ape princess , it was said , became the consort of a great white god who had come out of the West .
Johnson , indeed , had a most singular habit of speaking for Davy when others were against him , and of arguing against him , when others were for him .
in what strange form the curse should overtake me , I knew not ; but I was resolved , at least , that it should not find me a cowardly or a passive victim .
I fancy you know what I said about the will and the nerves and the preserved body after the organs ceased to work .
&quot; and here , most fitly , comes the consideration of the continued absence of him of the dark complexion .
here , having placed a candle upon a reading stand at the bed head , and having made an attempt to peruse some pages of the &quot; Omnipresence of the Deity , &quot; I unfortunately fell asleep in less than twenty seconds , leaving the light burning as it was .
the boys themselves are , all three of them , in the garden attending the pig .
Mr. L l and the nurses remained .
and as he scrambled on toward the bulging cliff and litten sky he felt fears more shocking than any he had known before .
but , as I placed my hand upon his shoulder , there came a strong shudder over his whole person ; a sickly smile quivered about his lips ; and I saw that he spoke in a low , hurried , and gibbering murmur , as if unconscious of my presence .
the ice cracked behind us and was driven with force towards the north ; a breeze sprang from the west , and on the th the passage towards the south became perfectly free .
on Wednesday noon , at twelve , a female body was discovered afloat on the shore of the Barrière de Roule .
Perdita shook her head doubtingly : &quot; it cannot be , &quot; she cried , &quot; I know that it is not .
here again I paused abruptly , and now with a feeling of wild amazement for there could be no doubt whatever that , in this instance , I did actually hear although from what direction it proceeded I found it impossible to say a low and apparently distant , but harsh , protracted , and most unusual screaming or grating sound the exact counterpart of what my fancy had already conjured up for the dragon &apos;s unnatural shriek as described by the romancer .
&quot; slave , I before reasoned with you , but you have proved yourself unworthy of my condescension .
the thin , shining line of the Miskatonic &apos;s upper reaches has an oddly serpent like suggestion as it winds close to the feet of the domed hills among which it rises .
do you choose a book . &quot;
it led me on to the foot of the northern precipice , and thence over the bridge , round by the eastern gable to the front door .
neighbours knew nothing of him till a week afterward , when Old Whateley drove his sleigh through the snow into Dunwich Village and discoursed incoherently to the group of loungers at Osborn &apos;s general store .
the chain of necessity ever bringing misery must have been broken and the malignant fate that presides over it would not permit this breach of her eternal laws .
whether we were mad , dreaming , or in our senses , we did not try to determine .
I was somehow glad that they had no more than four limbs .
and the princes and travellers , as they fled from the doomed city of Sarnath on horses and camels and elephants , looked again upon the mist begetting lake and saw the grey rock Akurion was quite submerged .
for new individualities , matter is necessary .
he suffered much from a morbid acuteness of the senses ; the most insipid food was alone endurable ; he could wear only garments of certain texture ; the odors of all flowers were oppressive ; his eyes were tortured by even a faint light ; and there were but peculiar sounds , and these from stringed instruments , which did not inspire him with horror .
the lamps burned flickeringly ; for this I knew by the tremulousness of the monotonous strains .
and as I watched , my nostrils tried to close against the perfume conquering stench of the world &apos;s dead ; for truly , in this unplaced and forgotten spot had all the flesh of the churchyards gathered for puffy sea worms to gnaw and glut upon .
&quot; will the Baron honor our festivals with his presence ? &quot;
had it contained confirmation , she must have been annihilated .
there were meats enough to have feasted the Anakim .
&quot; come in &apos; forty six the taown done some lookin &apos; an &apos; thinkin &apos; fer itself .
where late the busy multitudes assembled for pleasure or profit , now only the sound of wailing and misery is heard .
when the dreamer was settled on his couch in Elwood &apos;s room they sent for Dr. Malkowski a local practitioner who would repeat no tales where they might prove embarrassing and he gave Gilman two hypodermic injections which caused him to relax in something like natural drowsiness .
we retired from the debate which had followed on his nomination : we , his nominators , mortified ; he dispirited to excess .
I thanked my friend from my heart , but I did not speak .
there can be no doubt , therefore , that the spot of this appalling outrage has been discovered . &quot;
when I appeared on deck the master said , &quot; Here is our captain , and he will not allow you to perish on the open sea . &quot;
yet I who draw down all this misery upon you ; I who cast you forth and remorselessly have set the seal of distrust and agony on the heart and brow of my own child , who with devilish levity have endeavoured to steal away her loveliness to place in its stead the foul deformity of sin ; I , in the overflowing anguish of my heart , supplicate you to forgive me .
I could not help being struck by the strange coincidences that had taken place during this eventful night ; but , knowing that I had been conversing with several persons in the island I had inhabited about the time that the body had been found , I was perfectly tranquil as to the consequences of the affair .
we are not engaged in an attempt to discover the scene , but to produce the perpetrators of the murder .
I slept in one of the only two berths in the vessel and the berths of a sloop of sixty or twenty tons need scarcely be described .
as I turned into Adams Street I felt measurably safer , but received a shock when a man reeled out of a black doorway directly in front of me .
in this way the journal endeavored to create the impression of an apathy on the part of the relatives of Marie , inconsistent with the supposition that these relatives believed the corpse to be hers .
counting all , I constructed a table , thus : of the character there are .
the open doors of the empty mansions creaked upon their hinges ; rank herbage , and deforming dirt , had swiftly accumulated on the steps of the houses ; the voiceless steeples of the churches pierced the smokeless air ; the churches were open , but no prayer was offered at the altars ; mildew and damp had already defaced their ornaments ; birds , and tame animals , now homeless , had built nests , and made their lairs in consecrated spots .
his Essay was first published in a Baltimore weekly paper , was illustrated by cuts , and was entitled &quot; An attempt to analyze the Automaton Chess Player of M. Maelzel . &quot;
a storm was gathering around the peaks of the range , and weirdly shaped clouds scudded horribly across the blurred patch of celestial light which marked a gibbous moon &apos;s attempts to shine through many layers of cirro stratus vapours .
that pest spot lies not far distant for Benefit runs ledgewise just above the court house along the precipitous hill up which the first settlement climbed .
&quot; I did confess , but I confessed a lie .
there might have been a wrong here , or , more possibly , an accident at Madame Deluc &apos;s .
I had not seen him for ten days , and was appalled by the fearful alteration which the brief interval had wrought in him .
you shall not die You , my playfellow , my companion , my sister , perish on the scaffold No No I never could survive so horrible a misfortune . &quot;
for they deny that I sold the last of my statuary , and point with ecstasy at the thing which the shining shaft of light left cold , petrified , and unvocal .
no animal at all could be seen so far ; much less the minute points particularized in the story .
I had told no one of my visits to the tomb , having guarded my secret purpose with religious zeal since childhood ; but now I was forced to exercise care in threading the mazes of the wooded hollow , that I might throw off a possible pursuer .
moreover , so far as aesthetic theory was involved , if the psychic emanations of human creatures be grotesque distortions , what coherent representation could express or portray so gibbous and infamous a nebulosity as the spectre of a malign , chaotic perversion , itself a morbid blasphemy against Nature ?
it was in vain they endeavored to reassure me by the most solemn promises .
we need not there fear cold and hunger .
of my surprise I said nothing , and yet was I most unfeignedly surprised ; for a certain feebleness , or rather a certain tremulous indecision of voice in ordinary conversation , had prepared me to anticipate that , in singing , she would not acquit herself with any remarkable ability .
when I attained the conning tower I found the sea in general far less luminous than I had expected .
one of the fellows , enraged at my interference , struck me with his bayonet in the side , and I fell senseless .
I didn &apos;t do nothin &apos; , only I wondered haow &apos; twud be ef I did They say meat makes blood an &apos; flesh , an &apos; gives ye new life , so I wondered ef &apos; twudn &apos;t make a man live longer an &apos; longer ef &apos; twas more the same &quot; But the whisperer never continued .
it was beginning life again ; it was leaving barren sands for an abode of fertile beauty ; it was a harbour after a tempest , an opiate after sleepless nights , a happy waking from a terrible dream .
I felt no burthen , except the internal one of contrary and contending emotions .
it seemed that I had newly awakened from a confused and exciting dream .
no man had ever excited so strong an interest in the public mind ; this was apparent even among the phlegmatic English , from whom he had long been absent .
the Horror in the eyes There can be nothing normal in the mind of one who , knowing what I knew of the horrors of Tempest Mountain , would seek alone for the fear that lurked there .
in a few minutes the blaze broke forth with violence , and in an incredibly brief period the entire building was wrapped in flames .
a hope that the visitation of the present year would prove the last , kept up the spirits of the merchants connected with these countries ; but the inhabitants were driven to despair , or to a resignation which , arising from fanaticism , assumed the same dark hue .
Legrand led the way with decision ; pausing only for an instant , here and there , to consult what appeared to be certain landmarks of his own contrivance upon a former occasion .
I replied in the affirmative .
in this feeble radiance I saw that we were in a spacious , well furnished , and panelled library dating from the first quarter of the eighteenth century , with splendid doorway pediments , a delightful Doric cornice , and a magnificently carved overmantel with scroll and urn top .
it is , however , somewhat remarkable that many citizens of Rotterdam swore to having seen the same hat repeatedly before ; and indeed the whole assembly seemed to regard it with eyes of familiarity ; while the vrow Grettel Pfaall , upon sight of it , uttered an exclamation of joyful surprise , and declared it to be the identical hat of her good man himself .
he was a being formed in the &quot; very poetry of nature . &quot;
these were the usual results , for in order to reawaken the mind it was necessary to have specimens so absolutely fresh that no decay could possibly affect the delicate brain cells .
&quot; what are you all thinking about ?
these latter roofs , of course , needed no support ; but as they had the air of needing it , slight and perfectly plain pillars were inserted at the corners alone .
it appeared to be yes it was undoubtedly a species of balloon ; but surely no such balloon had ever been seen in Rotterdam before .
the house was in utter turmoil , and above the chatter of awed voices I heard a man praying in a deep basso .
alas with the failing of this solemn strain , the elevated spirit sank again to earth .
the spirits that guarded me had provided these moments , or rather hours , of happiness that I might retain strength to fulfil my pilgrimage .
it must have closed the window as it passed through it .
I had scarcely recovered , and with feigned hilarity had brought back smiles into my little circle , when we saw Ryland approach .
but the idea of entering the tomb never left my thoughts ; being indeed stimulated by the unexpected genealogical discovery that my own maternal ancestry possessed at least a slight link with the supposedly extinct family of the Hydes .
is not this a fearful curse that I labour under ?
the habits of the minister gave me , too , a great advantage .
that they were virtually separated was clear .
he had made up his mind to this all along .
why shall I pause to relate how , time after time , until near the period of the gray dawn , this hideous drama of revivification was repeated ; how each terrific relapse was only into a sterner and apparently more irredeemable death ; how each agony wore the aspect of a struggle with some invisible foe ; and how each struggle was succeeded by I know not what of wild change in the personal appearance of the corpse ?
upon its conclusion , Madame Lalande again turned toward the stage , and , for a few minutes , seemed absorbed in the performance .
the stench waxed overpowering , and the noises swelled to a bestial babel of croaking , baying , and barking without the least suggestion of human speech .
the whole height of the principal division was one hundred and twenty feet .
only two of the prisoners were found sane enough to be hanged , and the rest were committed to various institutions .
on August , , I , Karl Heinrich , Graf von Altberg Ehrenstein , Lieutenant commander in the Imperial German Navy and in charge of the submarine U , deposit this bottle and record in the Atlantic Ocean at a point to me unknown but probably about N. Latitude , W. Longitude , where my ship lies disabled on the ocean floor .
upon the floor were found four Napoleons , an ear ring of topaz , three large silver spoons , three smaller of métal d &apos;Alger , and two bags , containing nearly four thousand francs in gold .
my active mind , when once it seized upon this new idea , fastened on it with extreme avidity .
his uneasiness , in the first instance , had been , evidently , but the result of playfulness or caprice , but he now assumed a bitter and serious tone .
Gilman &apos;s dreams and their attendant circumstances have never been explained .
we know of nothing so agonizing upon Earth we can dream of nothing half so hideous in the realms of the nethermost Hell .
a few more years dwell in thy native garden , sweet flower , till I by toil and time acquire a right to gather thee .
this is unquestionably the most stupendous , the most interesting , and the most important undertaking , ever accomplished or even attempted by man .
he thought , with Horsley , that &quot; the people have nothing to do with the laws but to obey them . &quot;
thus it appeared , I say , but was not .
but for his horrible unkemptness the man would have been as distinguished looking as he was impressive .
at sight of the device the witch seemed struck with panic , and her grip relaxed long enough to give Gilman a chance to break it entirely .
in the first place , go to bed .
my solitary carriage attracted notice , as it rattled along towards the Protectoral Palace and the fashionable streets leading to it wore a still more dreary and deserted appearance .
inflamed by pain , I vowed eternal hatred and vengeance to all mankind .
my trusty dog watched the sheep as I slipped away to the rendezvous of my comrades , and thence to the accomplishment of our schemes .
I was also agreeably surprised to find myself , in a great measure , relieved from the violent pains which had hitherto tormented me .
lofty and amazing were the seventeen tower like temples of Sarnath , fashioned of a bright multi coloured stone not known elsewhere .
to the Baron Ritzner von Jung , Not knowing what better to do , I called upon Ritzner with this epistle .
and then I thought I heard a shriller , steadier note that was not from the viol ; a calm , deliberate , purposeful , mocking note from far away in the west .
one day a caravan of strange wanderers from the South entered the narrow cobbled streets of Ulthar .
does not understand the English language , but judges by the intonation .
whole villages were carried away .
I will melt the stony hearts of your enemies by my tears and prayers .
between ingenuity and the analytic ability there exists a difference far greater , indeed , than that between the fancy and the imagination , but of a character very strictly analogous .
all , however , was attributed to the effects of a new galvanic battery , wherewith the apothecary , who is really a man of information , performed several curious experiments , in which , from my personal share in their fulfillment , I could not help feeling deeply interested .
I am more struck , just now , with the supreme silence which reigns in the sea beneath us , notwithstanding its agitation , than with any other phenomenon presenting itself .
this was my life for sixteen years .
notwithstanding the tenderness and sweetness of my mother , her husband still deplored his degraded state .
&quot; thus , may it please your Excellencies , after a series of great anxieties , unheard of dangers , and unparalleled escapes , I had , at length , on the nineteenth day of my departure from Rotterdam , arrived in safety at the conclusion of a voyage undoubtedly the most extraordinary , and the most momentous , ever accomplished , undertaken , or conceived by any denizen of earth .
&quot; translating the known characters , and representing the unknown by dots , as before , we read thus : th rtee .
it is now , A.M. , and nearly calm , as well as I can judge but it is very difficult to determine this point , since we move with the air so completely .
nothing , however , happened ; and I saw that the power had been cut off .
she replied in a perfectly rational manner to all that I said ; and even her original observations were marked with the soundest good sense , but a long acquaintance with the metaphysics of mania , had taught me to put no faith in such evidence of sanity , and I continued to practise , throughout the interview , the caution with which I commenced it .
as to the former notion he confessed his inability to comprehend it ; and here I agreed with him for , however conclusive on paper , it becomes altogether unintelligible , and even absurd , amid the thunder of the abyss .
&quot; and mine eyes fell upon the countenance of the man , and his countenance was wan with terror .
&quot; do &quot; said I , glad of an opportunity to interpose a word , &quot; why come home and go to bed .
one day he came upon deck , and , taking his arm as had been my wont , I sauntered with him backward and forward .
let us descend , for the love of fun , and see what is going on This way be careful Here we are in the principal street , which is called the street of Timarchus .
but why he should have conceived the idea that we , of all others , we would disgrace our pages with his ineffable nonsense , is utterly beyond comprehension .
she entered silently , sat on a sofa opposite to him , and gazed on him with a look of such despair , that wildest shrieks and dire moans would have been tame exhibitions of misery , compared to the living incarnation of the thing itself exhibited by her .
&quot; old on &quot; he said ; &quot; don &apos;t pe in te urry don &apos;t .
the solitary murderer , having borne the corpse , for some distance , whether from the thicket or elsewhere by means of the bandage hitched around its middle , found the weight , in this mode of procedure , too much for his strength .
time and the Congo climate are not kind to mummies ; especially when their preparation is as amateurish as seemed to be the case here .
the very writing used to exhaust him ; and he would weep over them , merely from the excess of emotion they awakened in his heart .
in Britain only could he further the execution of his plan .
there were creakings , scurryings , and hoarse doubtful noises ; and I thought uncomfortably about the hidden tunnels suggested by the grocery boy .
I swallowed some very capital articles , though , when the big Bugaboo rammed me down with the butt end of his rifle . &quot;
sometimes I tried to imitate the pleasant songs of the birds but was unable .
observe how fast we move along and how the clouds , which sometimes obscure and sometimes rise above the dome of Mont Blanc , render this scene of beauty still more interesting .
the most learned philosopher knew little more .
beyond Cologne we descended to the plains of Holland ; and we resolved to post the remainder of our way , for the wind was contrary and the stream of the river was too gentle to aid us .
the more I saw of them , the greater became my desire to claim their protection and kindness ; my heart yearned to be known and loved by these amiable creatures ; to see their sweet looks directed towards me with affection was the utmost limit of my ambition .
it was of very brief duration , but , while it lasted resembled nothing in the world of which I had any previous experience .
so dense was this pleasant fog that I could at no time see more than a dozen yards of the path before me .
an appeal to one &apos;s own heart is , after all , the best reply to the sophistry just noticed .
I gasped for breath , and throwing myself on the body , I exclaimed , &quot; have my murderous machinations deprived you also , my dearest Henry , of life ?
so remain he did ; and he did more ; he unpacked his press , type , etc . , etc . , rented an office exactly opposite to that of the &apos; Gazette , &apos; and , on the third morning after his arrival , issued the first number of &apos; The Alexan &apos; that is to say , of &apos; The Nopolis Tea Pot &apos; as nearly as I can recollect , this was the name of the new paper .
alas I verily believe that if the near prospect of death did not dull and soften my bitter feelings , if for a few months longer I had continued to live as I then lived , strong in body , but my soul corrupted to its core by a deadly cancer , if day after day I had dwelt on these dreadful sentiments I should have become mad , and should have fancied myself a living pestilence : so horrible to my own solitary thoughts did this form , this voice , and all this wretched self appear ; for had it not been the source of guilt that wants a name ?
&quot; oh , le bon temps , que ce siecle de fer &quot; In truth , the ardor , the enthusiasm , and the imperiousness of my disposition , soon rendered me a marked character among my schoolmates , and by slow , but natural gradations , gave me an ascendancy over all not greatly older than myself ; over all with a single exception .
lamps were depressingly few and small all low powered incandescents and I was glad that my plans called for departure before dark , even though I knew the moon would be bright .
it resisted all my efforts , as I had anticipated .
&quot; ah , if I had only known you were here &quot; said Legrand , &quot; but it &apos;s so long since I saw you ; and how could I foresee that you would pay me a visit this very night of all others ?
&quot; in that which I now propose , we will discard the interior points of this tragedy , and concentrate our attention upon its outskirts .
presently his voice came back albeit as a trembling whisper .
&quot; the pleasant sunshine and the pure air of day restored me to some degree of tranquillity ; and when I considered what had passed at the cottage , I could not help believing that I had been too hasty in my conclusions .
I became quite ill , and my frame trembled with exhaustion .
as the men grew more frightened at this undersea imprisonment , some of them began to mutter again about Lieut .
I remembered where was deposited a decanter of light wine which had been ordered by her physicians , and hastened across the chamber to procure it .
the more substantial furniture consisted of a round table , a few chairs including a large rocking chair , and a sofa , or rather &quot; settee ; &quot; its material was plain maple painted a creamy white , slightly interstriped with green ; the seat of cane .
there was nothing to wash out no stain of any kind no blood spot whatever .
it was all eyes wolfish and mocking and the rugose insect like head dissolved at the top to a thin stream of mist which curled putridly about and finally vanished up the chimney .
in fact , it is no more than the duty of him who achieves greatness to leave behind him , in his ascent , such landmarks as may guide others to be great .
she appeared to suspect a plan of consolation on my part , from which she , cherishing her new born grief , revolted .
at my fourth repetition of the question , he said very faintly , almost inaudibly : &quot; yes ; still asleep dying . &quot;
had the lady been alone , I should undoubtedly have entered her box and accosted her at all hazards ; but , fortunately , she was attended by two companions a gentleman , and a strikingly beautiful woman , to all appearance a few years younger than herself .
the simple truth is , that up to this period all analysis has failed ; and until Von Kempelen chooses to let us have the key to his own published enigma , it is more than probable that the matter will remain , for years , in statu quo .
have a care ; I will work at your destruction , nor finish until I desolate your heart , so that you shall curse the hour of your birth . &quot;
Prob &apos;ly them was the Old Ones &apos; signs .
soon I observed that the odd looking Mexican was likewise interested ; eyeing it with an expression that banished all suspicion of mere covetousness .
this tuft of tawny hair , too , is identical in character with that of the beast of Cuvier .
I encouraged them with such thoughts of cheer as presented themselves .
pride and tenderness now struggled , and at length made a compromise together .
as the figures spread throughout the courtyard , I felt my fears increase .
at length we entered a wider space , and the low roof heightened ; but , as we congratulated ourselves on this change , our torch was extinguished by a current of air , and we were left in utter darkness .
Justine , thus received in our family , learned the duties of a servant , a condition which , in our fortunate country , does not include the idea of ignorance and a sacrifice of the dignity of a human being .
he thought of the splendour of her situation and appearance when he first knew her ; he thought of her life at Constantinople , attended by every circumstance of oriental magnificence ; of her present penury , her daily task of industry , her lorn state , her faded , famine struck cheek .
by day and by night for four long months thy roarings have not ceased the shores of the sea are strewn with wrecks , its keel welcoming surface has become impassable , the earth has shed her beauty in obedience to thy command ; the frail balloon dares no longer sail on the agitated air ; thy ministers , the clouds , deluge the land with rain ; rivers forsake their banks ; the wild torrent tears up the mountain path ; plain and wood , and verdant dell are despoiled of their loveliness ; our very cities are wasted by thee .
our air pressure and electricity were diminishing , and we wished to avoid all unnecessary use of our slender mechanical resources ; but in this case there was no choice .
in these black and bodiless flights we were sometimes alone and sometimes together .
could not speak in regard to their mode or means of living .
at the next inn my father had not taken horses ; he had left a box there saying he would return , and had walked over the fields to the town of a seacost town eight miles off .
&quot; never mind , &quot; said he at length , &quot; this will answer ; &quot; and he drew from his waistcoat pocket a scrap of what I took to be very dirty foolscap , and made upon it a rough drawing with the pen .
I had asked him , it will be remembered , if he still slept .
it remained in all respects as I have last described it , with the exception that the mirror no longer afforded evidence of respiration .
when I had afforded sufficient amusement , it was thought proper to remove my body from the gallows ; this the more especially as the real culprit had in the meantime been retaken and recognized , a fact which I was so unlucky as not to know .
it &apos;s getting late , and , besides , you remember your promise . &quot;
Monos , I comprehend you .
the colleges are ancient and picturesque ; the streets are almost magnificent ; and the lovely Isis , which flows beside it through meadows of exquisite verdure , is spread forth into a placid expanse of waters , which reflects its majestic assemblage of towers , and spires , and domes , embosomed among aged trees .
he made the first public experiment at Willis &apos;s rooms , but afterward removed his model to the Adelaide Gallery .
but in Perdita he possessed all that his heart could desire .
he pines for want of some interest in life .
at length my friend , who had taken up some of the leaves strewed about , exclaimed , &quot; This is the Sibyl &apos;s cave ; these are Sibylline leaves . &quot;
in a few seconds after my leaving the cloud , a flash of vivid lightning shot from one end of it to the other , and caused it to kindle up , throughout its vast extent , like a mass of ignited and glowing charcoal .
these walls are you going , gentlemen ?
received , has been made for the purpose of throwing the hurried account of our agent , Mr. Forsyth , into a connected and intelligible form .
I might as well here mention , that I have more than once heard , without , of course , giving credit to a report involving so many improbabilities , that the person of whom I speak , was not only by birth , but in education , an Englishman .
my protectors had departed and had broken the only link that held me to the world .
no muscle quivered ; no nerve thrilled ; no artery throbbed .
&quot; can &apos;t wait &quot; replies the man in authority ; &quot; cast off there , d &apos;ye hear ? &quot; &quot; what am I to do ? &quot; asks the finder , in great tribulation .
where there are no interspaces , there can be no yielding .
&quot; at twenty minutes before seven , the balloon entered a long series of dense cloud , which put me to great trouble , by damaging my condensing apparatus and wetting me to the skin .
I lifted them down , one by one , and breaking open their lids , busied myself in speculations about the mortality within .
when darkness at length overtook me , I went to bed in great anxiety , fearing to pass over the object of so much curiosity when I should have no opportunity of observing it .
volition had not departed , but was powerless .
the ex queen had also a daughter , now twelve years of age ; his fairy sister , Adrian was wont to call her ; a lovely , animated , little thing , all sensibility and truth .
we had locked the door from the cellar to the ground floor ; and having a key to the outside cellar door , we were prepared to leave our expensive and delicate apparatus which we had obtained secretly and at great cost as many days as our vigils might need to be protracted .
the circle round him fell back .
the door swung listlessly open , and when Earl Sawyer once stepped within after a cattle selling call on Old Whateley he was quite discomposed by the singular odour he encountered such a stench , he averred , as he had never before smelt in all his life except near the Indian circles on the hills , and which could not come from anything sane or of this earth .
a striking similitude between the brother and sister now first arrested my attention ; and Usher , divining , perhaps , my thoughts , murmured out some few words from which I learned that the deceased and himself had been twins , and that sympathies of a scarcely intelligible nature had always existed between them .
there was a bluish haze and a frenzied sputtering , and the yellowish phosphorescence grew dimmer to my eyes .
I dreaded that , in some trance of more than customary duration , they might be prevailed upon to regard me as irrecoverable .
of the progress of time we kept no record , for time had become to us the merest illusion .
for some minutes this fact occasioned me a world of vain trouble ; vain indeed for what could be of less importance , under the terrible circumstances which environed me , then the mere dimensions of my dungeon ?
it was past two o &apos;clock when by a sudden turn I found myself close to the lake near a cove where a little skiff was moored It was not far from our house and I saw my father and aunt walking on the lawn .
keener news followers , however , wondered at the prodigious number of Arrests , the abnormally large force of men used in making them , and the secrecy surrounding the disposal of the prisoners .
they secluded themselves in their staterooms during the greater part of the passage , and absolutely refused , although I repeatedly urged them , to hold communication with any person on board .
the poor mother who had brooded long over , and suppressed the expression of her anguish , now burst into tears , and folding her babe in her arms , hurried from the hall .
&quot; never shall I forget the sensations of awe , horror , and admiration with which I gazed about me .
were these warning voices , whose inarticulate and oracular sense forced belief upon me ?
my course at once became clear .
irascibility was his sole foible , for in fact the obstinacy of which men accused him was anything but his foible , since he justly considered it his forte .
I saw , with surprise and grief , the leaves decay and fall , and nature again assume the barren and bleak appearance it had worn when I first beheld the woods and the lovely moon .
some of the windows on the Gilman House side were faintly glowing , and I thought I heard confused sounds within .
it must have been drugged ; for scarcely had I drunk , before I became irresistibly drowsy .
of sauces there were an untold number , prepared by the subtlest cooks in all Mnar , and suited to the palate of every feaster .
he came to Windsor to consult with us .
&quot; my friend , &quot; said Dupin , in a kind tone , &quot; you are alarming yourself unnecessarily you are indeed .
since the grocery was closed , I was forced to patronise the restaurant I had shunned before ; a stooped , narrow headed man with staring , unwinking eyes , and a flat nosed wench with unbelievably thick , clumsy hands being in attendance .
uncontrollable indignation flashed from the eyes of Raymond .
and life arose in our paths ; for the tall flamingo , hitherto unseen , with all gay glowing birds , flaunted his scarlet plumage before us .
it gives me , perhaps , as much of pleasure as I can now in any manner experience , to dwell upon minute recollections of the school and its concerns .
hear me ; let me reveal my tale , and you will dash the cup from your lips &quot; Such words , you may imagine , strongly excited my curiosity ; but the paroxysm of grief that had seized the stranger overcame his weakened powers , and many hours of repose and tranquil conversation were necessary to restore his composure .
his bride was the loveliest and most devoted of women .
a change came over the yellow , goatish face of the prostrate thing , and the great black eyes fell in appallingly .
in the midst of saddest grief I seemed to tread air , while the spirit of good shed round me an ambrosial atmosphere , which blunted the sting of sympathy , and purified the air of sighs .
oh Be men , or be more than men .
I thought of the occurrences of the day .
but let it not for a moment be supposed that , in proceeding with the sad narrative of Marie from the epoch just mentioned , and in tracing to its dénouement the mystery which enshrouded her , it is my covert design to hint at an extension of the parallel , or even to suggest that the measures adopted in Paris for the discovery of the assassin of a grisette , or measures founded in any similar ratiocination , would produce any similar result .
the remote farmhouse had always been feared because of Old Whateley &apos;s reputation for black magic , and the unexplained death by violence of Mrs. Whateley when Lavinia was twelve years old had not helped to make the place popular .
deep in midnight , she was awaked by a rustling near her ; she would have started up , but her stiff joints refused to obey her will .
I washed my hands of the matter in disgust .
but her temper was fluctuating ; joy for a few instants shone in her eyes , but it continually gave place to distraction and reverie .
the rain had ceased for a moment , and I saw the fish play in the waters as they had done a few hours before ; they had then been observed by Elizabeth .
for years those slumbers had known only such twisted reflections of every day things as the commonest slumbers know , but now there returned a flicker of something stranger and wilder ; something of vaguely awesome immanence which took the form of tensely clear pictures from his childhood days , and made him think of little inconsequential things he had long forgotten .
I believe that I have now related all that is necessary to an understanding of the sleep waker &apos;s state at this epoch .
unhappy is he to whom the memories of childhood bring only fear and sadness .
what prevents me from believing the doctor is this one simple fact that the police never found the bodies of those servants whom they say Crawford Tillinghast murdered .
with how vast a triumph with how vivid a delight with how much of all that is ethereal in hope did I feel , as she bent over me in studies but little sought but less known that delicious vista by slow degrees expanding before me , down whose long , gorgeous , and all untrodden path , I might at length pass onward to the goal of a wisdom too divinely precious not to be forbidden How poignant , then , must have been the grief with which , after some years , I beheld my well grounded expectations take wings to themselves and fly away Without Ligeia I was but as a child groping benighted .
&quot; it is well that you come here to whine over the desolation that you have made .
then the knocking was repeated continuously , and with growing insistence .
now , however , he seemed to hesitate .
the death &apos;s head at the corner diagonally opposite , had , in the same manner , the air of a stamp , or seal .
those who possessed a power of living out of London , he advised immediately to quit it , affording them the means of so doing .
a cold shudder ran through natives and visitors alike , and every ear seemed strained in a kind of instinctive , unconscious listening .
the idea of entity was becoming merged in that of place .
the pun upon the word &apos; Kidd &apos; is appreciable in no other language than the English .
the gates of their abode were besieged , audible prayers were breathed for his restoration ; all these circumstances added to the dismay and fears of Perdita .
as Evadne regained her composure , his manner became even gay ; he sported with the idea of her poverty .
saying this , he endeavoured to spring from the bed , but the exertion was too great for him ; he fell back and fainted .
we give below all the material testimony elicited .
but what was my astonishment at perceiving that she not only did not a second time avert her head , but that she actually took from her girdle a double eyeglass elevated it adjusted it and then regarded me through it , intently and deliberately , for the space of several minutes .
I breathed more freely .
now I could not account for this difference except by supposing that the roughened fragments were the only ones which had been completely absorbed that the others had entered the whirl at so late a period of the tide , or , for some reason , had descended so slowly after entering , that they did not reach the bottom before the turn of the flood came , or of the ebb , as the case might be .
the lines of her face were hard and rude , like that of persons accustomed to see without sympathizing in sights of misery .
&quot; hark behold who can those ridiculous beings be , half naked , with their faces painted , shouting and gesticulating to the rabble ? &quot;
solitude also lost to me some of its charms : I began again to wish for sympathy ; not that I was ever tempted to seek the crowd , but I wished for one friend to love me .
the next day I was increasingly apprehensive about the police , for a patient brought rumours of a suspected fight and death .
it would have been a miracle had it not especially under the circumstances .
&quot; it is necessary to premise , that the balloon , at the elevation now attained , continued its course upward with an even and undeviating ascent , and the car consequently followed with a steadiness so perfect that it would have been impossible to detect in it the slightest vacillation whatever .
I despair of conveying to the reader any distinct conception of the marvels which my friend did actually accomplish .
I was an imbecile an idiot .
the cases of which you speak were , in fact , instances of the secondary creation and of the only species of creation which has ever been , since the first word spoke into existence the first law .
on this occasion I went , dreading the worst , to his dwelling , to see if I could be of any service to those of his family who might have survived .
here Legrand , having re heated the parchment , submitted it to my inspection .
we are not informed for what reason the two seamen were also included in the party but , in the course of a day or two , we shall put our readers in possession of the minutest particulars respecting this extraordinary voyage .
as she approached , with a certain modest decision of step altogether indescribable .
the same ethereal figure which stood before me the preceding night upon the steps of the Ducal Palace , stood before me once again .
continually enveloped in an atmosphere of whim , my friend appeared to live only for the severities of society ; and not even his own household have for a moment associated other ideas than those of the rigid and august with the memory of the Baron Ritzner von Jung , the demon of the dolce far niente lay like an incubus upon the university .
it clearly belonged to some settled technique of infinite maturity and perfection , yet that technique was utterly remote from any Eastern or Western , ancient or modern which I had ever heard of or seen exemplified .
the stars shone at intervals as the clouds passed from over them ; the dark pines rose before me , and every here and there a broken tree lay on the ground ; it was a scene of wonderful solemnity and stirred strange thoughts within me .
they were all whipped syllabub .
what I shall repeat will be as the faint shadow of a tree by moonlight some what of the form will be preserved but there will be no life in it Plato alone of mortals could record the thoughts of Diotima hopeless therefore I shall not dwell so much on her words as on those of her pupils which being more earthly can better than hers be related by living lips .
a guardian had deposited funds in a Boston bank to maintain her and her French governess ; but that guardian &apos;s name was unfamiliar to Arkham people , and in time he dropped out of sight , so that the governess assumed his role by court appointment .
they searched , but found nothing .
the sight of such endless avenues of fishy eyed vacancy and death , and the thought of such linked infinities of black , brooding compartments given over to cobwebs and memories and the conqueror worm , start up vestigial fears and aversions that not even the stoutest philosophy can disperse .
a part of the right wrist , also , was much chafed , as well as the back throughout its extent , but more especially at the shoulder blades .
yet , and for ever , would I contribute all I possess to your welfare .
some of the dream sages wrote gorgeously of the wonders beyond the irrepassable gate , but others told of horror and disappointment .
&apos;Accursed creator Why did you form a monster so hideous that even YOU turned from me in disgust ?
it had been my intention to pass the night at the hut , as I had frequently done before , but , seeing my host in this mood , I deemed it proper to take leave .
take a dose of Brandreth &apos;s pills , and then give us your sensations .
and the shadow answered , &quot; I am shadow , and my dwelling is near to the catacombs of Ptolemais , and hard by those dim plains of Helusion which border upon the foul Charonian canal . &quot;
glancing about me , I involuntarily let my pace slacken for a second to take in the sight of the sea , gorgeous in the burning moonlight at the street &apos;s end .
the experiment would be a landmark in our studies , and he had saved the new body for my return , so that both might share the spectacle in accustomed fashion .
I cannot just now remember when or where I first made the acquaintance of that truly fine looking fellow , Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith .
it is all head and no body , like the pictures of the goddess Laverna , or , at best , all head and shoulders , like a codfish .
his eyes were bright , his countenance composed , an air of concentrated energy was diffused over his whole person , much unlike its former languor .
as for Luchesi &quot; &quot; He is an ignoramus , &quot; interrupted my friend , as he stepped unsteadily forward , while I followed immediately at his heels .
if I trembled at the blast which has hitherto attended us , shall I not stand aghast at a warring of wind and ocean , to convey any idea of which the words tornado and Simoom are trivial and ineffective ?
choosing the direction toward the house , I scrambled recklessly into the narrow burrow ; squirming ahead blindly and rapidly , and flashing but seldom the lamp I kept before me .
here are the very nooks where the unwashed most abound here are the temples most desecrate .
here , too , are some chefs d &apos;oeuvre of the unknown great ; and here , unfinished designs by men , celebrated in their day , whose very names the perspicacity of the academies has left to silence and to me .
another said that , indeed , Bullet head had shown much X uberance of fancy .
Dr. Johnson and I , as well as many others , were high Tories ; whilst Mr. Burke was a Whig , and against the American War , many of his Speeches on that subject having been widely publish &apos;d .
let me seek , then , a spot not far from a populous city whose vicinity , also , will best enable me to execute my plans . &quot;
the council chamber was deserted ; the crowds which attended on him as agents to his various projects were neglected .
stranger still , when the troops advanced near the city , the walls were vacant , and no cannon was pointed against the intruders .
deep , deep , below me was a sound a rhythm , just as the peon had said which , though exceedingly faint , yet dominated even the dog , the coyote , and the increasing tempest .
of his family I could obtain no satisfactory account .
this was the forest near Ingolstadt ; and here I lay by the side of a brook resting from my fatigue , until I felt tormented by hunger and thirst .
the grey old scholar , as vivid as in life , spoke long and earnestly of their ancient line , and of the strange visions of the delicate and sensitive men who composed it .
if you are unconvinced , I can add nothing further by way of argument , and I can only declare my fixed resolve .
we see things only as we are constructed to see them , and can gain no idea of their absolute nature .
in a few minutes more , there came over the scene another radical alteration .
&quot; j &apos; en ai eu , &quot; says he &quot; l &apos;original de Monsieur D &apos;Avisson , medecin des mieux versez qui soient aujourd &apos;huy dans la cõnoissance des Belles Lettres , et sur tout de la philosophic Naturelle .
but he was awake now ; all this should be remedied ; and future devotion erase the memory of this only blot on the serenity of their life .
as I turned from the door , I saw Merrival , or rather the shadow of Merrival , attenuated and wild , pass me , and sit on the steps of his home .
these thoughts supported my spirits , while I pursued my undertaking with unremitting ardour .
certainly , the madness began with Sir Wade , whose wild stories of Africa were at once the delight and terror of his few friends .
then a pause in which all is blank .
my breast heaved , my knees tottered , my whole spirit became possessed with an objectless yet intolerable horror .
but Mercy Dexter &apos;s once robust frame had undergone a sad and curious decay , so that she was now a stooped and pathetic figure with hollow voice and disconcerting pallor qualities shared to a singular degree by the one remaining servant Maria .
can the madman , as he clanks his chains , hope ?
with how superior a dignity the monarch perambulates on all fours His tail , you perceive , is held aloft by his two principal concubines , Elline and Argelais ; and his whole appearance would be infinitely prepossessing , were it not for the protuberance of his eyes , which will certainly start out of his head , and the queer color of his face , which has become nondescript from the quantity of wine he has swallowed .
we are no longer lovers ; nor can I call myself a friend to any ; since , lost as I am , I have no thought to spare from my own wretched , engrossing self .
it remained to be seen , first , whether , in such condition , there existed in the patient any susceptibility to the magnetic influence ; secondly , whether , if any existed , it was impaired or increased by the condition ; thirdly , to what extent , or for how long a period , the encroachments of Death might be arrested by the process .
the electricity seemed to be turned off , and when I asked my guide he said it was for a definite reason .
they here rummaged some drawers and boxes , but discovered only a few papers , of no importance , and some good coin , silver and gold .
I assure you that I do not exaggerate at all .
and the faces It was not any mere artist &apos;s interpretation that we saw ; it was pandemonium itself , crystal clear in stark objectivity .
I exchanged my land sledge for one fashioned for the inequalities of the frozen ocean , and purchasing a plentiful stock of provisions , I departed from land .
suddenly lights were brought into the room , and this reverberation became forthwith interrupted into frequent unequal bursts of the same sound , but less dreary and less distinct .
the match had been between kid O &apos;Brien a lubberly and now quaking youth with a most un Hibernian hooked nose and buck Robinson , &quot; The Harlem smoke &quot; .
the past was vivid there , for not an attribute was missing .
at two in the morning a lone coyote on the mountain began to howl dismally .
it seemed as if , far from any dread of defeat even if Mr. Ryland had not resigned , every voice would have been united in favour of our candidate .
such failures are not uncommon , and we were more pleased than disappointed ; since our return to Wilhelmshaven was now in order .
it is not to be supposed , however , that in the delivery of such passages I was found at all deficient in the looking asquint the showing my teeth the working my knees the shuffling my feet or in any of those unmentionable graces which are now justly considered the characteristics of a popular performer .
denizens of some planets might be able to live on certain others even planets belonging to other galaxies , or to similar dimensional phases of other space time continua though of course there must be vast numbers of mutually uninhabitable even though mathematically juxtaposed bodies or zones of space .
he was a schoolfellow and friend of her brother &apos;s , and usually spent a part of the holidays at the mansion of the duke her father .
soon after this incident we parted .
he made , at that moment , a solemn vow to deliver him and then looked around for the means .
yet I did not heed the bleakness of the weather ; I was better fitted by my conformation for the endurance of cold than heat .
the cabin floor was thickly strewn with strange , iron clasped folios , and mouldering instruments of science , and obsolete long forgotten charts .
it was in this apartment , also , that there stood against the western wall , a gigantic clock of ebony .
he had , indeed , made that coffin for Matthew Fenner ; but had cast it aside at last as too awkward and flimsy , in a fit of curious sentimentality aroused by recalling how kindly and generous the little old man had been to him during his bankruptcy five years before .
one of earth &apos;s nethermost terrors had perished forever ; and if there be a hell , it had received at last the daemon soul of an unhallowed thing .
his demeanor was dogged in the extreme , and &quot; dat deuced bug &quot; were the sole words which escaped his lips during the journey .
we heard no more of them ; for , as he had said , the siege , now drawing to a conclusion , became paramount in interest , engaging all his time and attention .
this sum was paid in gold , and a clerk went home with the money .
Wilcox was a precocious youth of known genius but great eccentricity , and had from childhood excited attention through the strange stories and odd dreams he was in the habit of relating .
we were affectionate playfellows during childhood , and , I believe , dear and valued friends to one another as we grew older .
I would have given worlds to have acted as in days of boyhood , have strained him to my breast , pressed his hand to my lips , and wept over him ; my swelling heart choked me ; the natural current would not be checked ; the big rebellious tears gathered in my eyes ; I turned aside , and they dropped in the sea they came fast and faster ; yet I could hardly be ashamed , for I saw that the rough sailors were not unmoved , and Raymond &apos;s eyes alone were dry from among our crew .
this old man , tottering on the edge of the grave , and prolonging his prospect through millions of calculated years , this visionary who had not seen starvation in the wasted forms of his wife and children , or plague in the horrible sights and sounds that surrounded him this astronomer , apparently dead on earth , and living only in the motion of the spheres loved his family with unapparent but intense affection .
that the respiration was not &apos; diminished , &apos; is not only clear by the subsequent context , but by the use of the plural , &apos; were.&apos;
the effects of purifying cold were immediately felt ; and the lists of mortality abroad were curtailed each week .
the owner , who is ascertained to be a sailor , belonging to a Maltese vessel , may have the animal again , upon identifying it satisfactorily , and paying a few charges arising from its capture and keeping .
upon one plate I read the name of Sir Geoffrey Hyde , who had come from Sussex in and died here a few years later .
they hopped irregularly , sometimes on two legs and sometimes on four .
such perils , although little considered , are perhaps the greatest which must be encountered in balloons .
then there was the crumbling farmhouse of old Goody Fowler the witch , with its little evil windows and great roof sloping nearly to the ground on the north side .
and when many weeks had passed , and but little remained to do , save one brush upon the mouth and one tint upon the eye , the spirit of the lady again flickered up as the flame within the socket of the lamp .
I must expiate these crimes , and must endeavour in some degree to proportionate my punishment to my guilt .
the history of human knowledge has so uninterruptedly shown that to collateral , or incidental , or accidental events we are indebted for the most numerous and most valuable discoveries , that it has at length become necessary , in any prospective view of improvement , to make not only large , but the largest allowances for inventions that shall arise by chance , and quite out of the range of ordinary expectation .
he took a pipe and a chair and entered into some ordinary conversation .
plain and hill , stream and corn field , were discernible below , while we unimpeded sped on swift and secure , as a wild swan in his spring tide flight .
papa , this is a judgment upon you , about about you know what .
during the morning I attended the motions of the cottagers , and when they were dispersed in various occupations , I slept ; the remainder of the day was spent in observing my friends .
could not distinguish the words , but was convinced by the intonation that the speaker was an Italian .
his blue eyes , though a trifle bloodshot , seemed inexplicably keen and burning .
no pictorial or sculptural combinations of points of human liveliness do more than approach the living and breathing beauty .
should we , any of us , survive the coming summer ?
I was a solitary being , and from my infant years , ever since my dear nurse left me , I had been a dreamer .
he acknowledged that he was not an architect ; but the idea of the building had struck him , though he had sent it without the smallest hope of its being accepted .
some of them had even told the police and advised them to look there for the missing Wolejko child , but they did not believe anything would be done .
I went but to obtain the consent of Idris , and then to return and take my station beside my unequalled friend ; to share his labours , and save him , if so it must be , at the expence of my life .
never before had the presence of evil so poignantly oppressed me .
at first curious , I was now frantic ; and when in the thickening twilight I returned to my home , I had sworn to the hundred gods of the grove that at any cost I would some day force an entrance to the black , chilly depths that seemed calling out to me .
she is to be tried today , and I hope , I sincerely hope , that she will be acquitted . &quot;
terrified , I continued to repeat , &quot; Warren , what is it ?
he had extorted from her a vow of secrecy ; and her part of the drama , since it was to be performed alone , was the most agonizing that could be devised .
he must have been a noble creature in his better days , being even now in wreck so attractive and amiable .
he now removed his viol from its moth eaten covering , and taking it , seated himself in the least uncomfortable of the chairs .
I my self did not more than a fortnight ago catch a very plain Discourse of evill powers in the Hill behind my House ; wherein there were a rattling and rolling , Groaning , screeching , and hissing , such as no Things of this Earth cou &apos;d raise up , and which must needs have come from those caves that only black Magick can discover , and only the Divell unlock . &quot;
what does it matter , whether the fire be struck from flint and steel , nourished with care into a flame , slowly communicated to the dark wick , or whether swiftly the radiant power of light and warmth passes from a kindred power , and shines at once the beacon and the hope .
my love for you is inviolate . &quot;
I must weave a veil of dazzling falsehood to hide my grief from vulgar eyes , smoothe my brow , and paint my lips in deceitful smiles even in solitude I dare not think how lost I am , lest I become insane and rave . &quot;
you needn &apos;t ask how Wilbur called it out of the air .
I have said that my aunt was very unlike my father .
can &apos;t shet his eyes no more , an &apos; is all aout o &apos; shape .
it occurred to him that there was no blood on the bedspread where he had lain which was very curious in view of the amount on his skin and cuff .
affairs went on thus until the latter had attained her twenty second year , when her great beauty attracted the notice of a perfumer , who occupied one of the shops in the basement of the Palais Royal , and whose custom lay chiefly among the desperate adventurers infesting that neighborhood .
it was here , I recalled , that the Rowley road drew so close to the old railway before crossing westward and diverging .
alternate frosts and thaws succeeding to floods , rendered the country impassable .
the memory of sorrow has brought tears ; the memory of happiness a warm glow the lively shadow of that joy .
the learned spoke of slight geological disturbances , of probable alterations in climate , and consequently in vegetation , of possible magnetic and electric influences .
the first opportunity which presented itself , and which horresco referens I did not in the least scruple to seize , occurred at the Church of the Reverend Doctor Drummummupp , where I found myself established , one Sunday , just at sermon time , not only in the pew , but by the side , of that worthy and communicative little friend of mine , Miss Tabitha T. Thus seated , I congratulated myself , and with much reason , upon the very flattering state of affairs .
a thousand vague fancies oppressed and disconcerted me fancies the more distressing because vague .
says they &apos;d orter git better gods like some o &apos; the folks in the Injies gods as ud bring &apos; em good fishin &apos; in return for their sacrifices , an &apos; ud reely answer folks &apos;s prayers .
in a dream it was also that he came by his name of Kuranes , for when awake he was called by another name .
perhaps no country is naturally so well protected against our invader ; nor has nature anywhere been so well assisted by the hand of man .
a night or two ago Lord Raymond , with a brow of care , and a heart oppressed with thought , bent all his energies to silence or persuade the legislators of England that a sceptre was not too weighty for his hand , while visions of dominion , war , and triumph floated before him ; now , frolicsome as a lively boy sporting under his mother &apos;s approving eye , the hopes of his ambition were complete , when he pressed the small fair hand of Perdita to his lips ; while she , radiant with delight , looked on the still pool , not truly admiring herself , but drinking in with rapture the reflection there made of the form of herself and her lover , shewn for the first time in dear conjunction .
almost from infancy I was deprived of all the testimonies of affection which children generally receive ; I was thrown entirely upon my own resources , and I enjoyed what I may almost call unnatural pleasures , for they were dreams and not realities .
the collection was a notable one indeed , but in my present mood I had eyes for nothing but the bizarre object which glistened in a corner cupboard under the electric lights .
Cthulhu still lives , too , I suppose , again in that chasm of stone which has shielded him since the sun was young .
but the chief merit of the Magazine lies in its miscellaneous articles ; and the best of these come under the head of what Dr. Moneypenny calls the bizarreries whatever that may mean and what everybody else calls the intensities .
the houses were wildly picturesque .
I threw the letter on the table , and covered my face with my hands .
as At first , as the memory of former happiness contrasted to my present despair came across me , I gave relief to the oppression of heart that I felt by words , and groans , and heart rending sighs : but nature became wearied , and this more violent grief gave place to a passionate but mute flood of tears : my whole soul seemed to dissolve in them .
I dared not speak to him ; and when sometimes I had worked up courage to meet him and to ask an explanation one glance at his face where a chaos of mighty passion seemed for ever struggling made me tremble and shrink to silence .
fainting and gasping , I looked at that unhallowed Erebus of titan toadstools , leprous fire , and slimy water , and saw the cloaked throngs forming a semicircle around the blazing pillar .
when you read their writings , life appears to consist in a warm sun and a garden of roses , in the smiles and frowns of a fair enemy , and the fire that consumes your own heart .
then the other shapes began to appear , filling me with nameless horror the moment I awoke .
the squatters might have understood , but I dared not frighten them more .
I was so pleased to see him , that I thought I should never have done wringing his hand .
think not , Walton , that in the last moments of my existence I feel that burning hatred and ardent desire of revenge I once expressed ; but I feel myself justified in desiring the death of my adversary .
I often referred the several situations , as their similarity struck me , to my own .
you arose and descended into the city . &quot;
there had been five of them in a car , but now the car stood empty near the ruins in the Frye yard .
in the feeling communicated to me by the sight of one struck by the plague , I forgot the events that had excited me so strongly in London ; new and more painful prospects , by degrees were cleared of the mist which had hitherto veiled them .
the poor girl returned to the assembly , where her presence had not been missed .
tale of desperate battle and deaths at Sea . rescued Seaman refuses Particulars of strange experience .
what could I say to all this what could I ? I staggered into an arm chair , and , with staring eyes and open mouth , awaited the solution of the wonder .
the first comer then gave a wry smile and reached out with his left hand toward the small object on the table .
it does not look true .
&quot; you think those floundering things wiped out the servants ?
during these last days I have been occupied in examining my past conduct ; nor do I find it blamable .
at length you have broken the spell ; tell me what you know of her . &quot;
when you left the Bishop &apos;s Hotel , what then ? &quot; &quot; why , having carefully taken the bearings of the tree , I turned homewards .
I gave it a pull or two upon the spot , and wrote a pamphlet on Nosology forthwith .
but , though others might rank higher in title and ceremony , Lord Raymond held a station above and beyond all this .
and this is what it said : &quot; you fool , Warren is dead &quot; In the morning mist comes up from the sea by the cliffs beyond Kingsport .
I read it with profound attention .
the luxury of command and the attentions of servitude were lost .
Mather , damn him , was afraid somebody might succeed in kicking free of this accursed cage of monotony I wish someone had laid a spell on him or sucked his blood in the night &quot; I can shew you a house he lived in , and I can shew you another one he was afraid to enter in spite of all his fine bold talk .
in the inmost recesses of this coppice , not far from the eastern or more remote end of the island , Legrand had built himself a small hut , which he occupied when I first , by mere accident , made his acquaintance .
by the united aid of medals , manuscripts , and inscriptions , I am enabled to say , positively , that the borough of Vondervotteimittiss has existed , from its origin , in precisely the same condition which it at present preserves .
if there be no friendly arm to check us , or if we fail in a sudden effort to prostrate ourselves backward from the abyss , we plunge , and are destroyed .
it glowed and blushed beneath the eyes of the slant sunlight , and fairly laughed with flowers .
in wild delirium she called upon the name of Raymond ; she exclaimed that I was keeping him from her , while the Turks with fearful instruments of torture were about to take his life .
&quot; what in the name heaven shall I do ? &quot; asked Legrand , seemingly in the greatest distress .
he must know that if I believed that his intention was merely to absent himself from me that instead of opposing him it would be that which I should myself require or if he thought that any lurking feeling , yet he could not think that , should lead me to him would he endeavour to overthrow the only hope he could have of ever seeing me again ; a lover , there was madness in the thought , yet he was my lover , would not act thus .
I knew that I could not remove it from the house , either by day or by night , without the risk of being observed by the neighbors .
they did not stop to view the matter closely and reasoningly .
we will go back ; you will be ill , and I cannot be responsible .
&quot; treason treason &quot; shrieked her majesty of the mouth ; and , seizing by the hinder part of his breeches the unfortunate Tarpaulin , who had just commenced pouring out for himself a skull of liqueur , she lifted him high into the air , and let him fall without ceremony into the huge open puncheon of his beloved ale .
these fellows annoyed me very much , at intervals , during the repast , by an infinite variety of noises , which were intended for music , and which appeared to afford much entertainment to all present , with the exception of myself .
they , like the whole balustrade , seemed to be made of some sort of shining metal whose colour could not be guessed in this chaos of mixed effulgences ; and their nature utterly defied conjecture .
I love Elizabeth and look forward to our union with delight .
its original projector , however , Baron Kempelen , had no scruple in declaring it to be a &quot; very ordinary piece of mechanism a bagatelle whose effects appeared so marvellous only from the boldness of the conception , and the fortunate choice of the methods adopted for promoting the illusion . &quot;
deposits of skulls and bones , found within these circles and around the sizeable table like rock on Sentinel Hill , sustain the popular belief that such spots were once the burial places of the Pocumtucks ; even though many ethnologists , disregarding the absurd improbability of such a theory , persist in believing the remains Caucasian .
I fancied that they hesitated , and that there was some hope for me I was mistaken hardly had we quitted the chamber , before Adrian was recalled , and installed in his office of Lord deputy to the Protector .
the men who shook me were the crew of the sloop , and some laborers engaged to unload it .
I had by this time , however , attained too great an elevation to be any longer uneasy on this head .
the voice of lamentation fills the valley of Cashmere ; its dells and woods , its cool fountains , and gardens of roses , are polluted by the dead ; in Circassia and Georgia the spirit of beauty weeps over the ruin of its favourite temple the form of woman .
he started at her name , he looked uneasily on me .
he was ever employed in promoting the pleasures of his companions but their pleasures were his ; and if he bestowed more attention upon the feelings of others than is usual with schoolboys it was because his social temper could never enjoy itself if every brow was not as free from care as his own .
in Germany and Russia the injury was still more momentous .
Adrian and his division , consisting in all of five hundred persons , were to take the direction of Dover and Calais .
it was the admirers , friends , fellow soldiers of Raymond , families that had welcomed Perdita to Greece , and lamented with her the loss of her lord , that were swept away , and went to dwell with them in the undistinguishing tomb .
the curiosity of both the physicians was greatly excited .
Justine died , she rested , and I was alive .
&quot; but where were my friends and relations ?
his daughter attended him with the greatest tenderness , but she saw with despair that their little fund was rapidly decreasing and that there was no other prospect of support .
his will was at no period positively , or thoroughly , under my control , and in regard to clairvoyance , I could accomplish with him nothing to be relied upon .
while he was with me , the wonder and diabolism of his experiments fascinated me utterly , and I was his closest companion .
then did the bearded man say to me with tears on his cheek : &quot; we have rejected the beautiful Land of Sona Nyl , which we may never behold again .
this coffin was warmly and softly padded , and was provided with a lid , fashioned upon the principle of the vault door , with the addition of springs so contrived that the feeblest movement of the body would be sufficient to set it at liberty .
do you remember what an odd sensation was experienced when , by chance , we caught a glimpse of external objects while the cars were in full flight ?
despair Who dared talk of that ?
Constantinople was invested , trenches dug , and advances made .
and , while I felt Idris to be near , and heard the regular breathing of my children , I could not be unhappy .
they shook their heads at the visitors &apos; plan to stand guard at the Frye ruins near the glen ; and as they left , had little expectancy of ever seeing the watchers again .
my mind turned to that odd question which had kept recurring ever since the nightmare thing had happened ; and again I wondered why the daemon , approaching the three watchers either from the window or the interior , had begun with the men on each side and left the middle man till the last , when the titan fireball had scared it away .
&quot; I do refuse it , &quot; I replied ; &quot; and no torture shall ever extort a consent from me .
after some irrelevant adventures , much in the manner of Gil Blas , and which occupy the first thirty pages , the author relates that , being ill during a sea voyage , the crew abandoned him , together with a negro servant , on the island of St. Helena .
the task of his destruction was mine , but I have failed .
his forehead , high beyond the usual dimensions ; his cheeks , deep sunken and heavily lined with wrinkles ; and his hands , long , claw like , and gnarled , were of such a deathly , marble like whiteness as I have never elsewhere seen in man .
I will not task myself beyond my powers , nor will I needlessly seek danger .
in the pure arrogance of the reason , we have all overlooked it .
as is usually the case in the prosecution of such enterprizes , the difficulties decreased on examination .
but despite all I have done it remains an humiliating fact that I cannot find the house , the street , or even the locality , where , during the last months of my impoverished life as a student of metaphysics at the university , I heard the music of Erich Zann .
Johansen and his men were awed by the cosmic majesty of this dripping Babylon of elder daemons , and must have guessed without guidance that it was nothing of this or of any sane planet .
I was formed for peaceful happiness .
and worst of all , I perceived that one figure was strangely robed , and unmistakably surmounted by a tall tiara of a design altogether too familiar .
early in the day , I heard of the arrival of the aged grandmother of one of our servants at the Castle .
&quot; why , Sir , &quot; reply &apos;d Johnson , &quot; I do not require to become familiar with a Man &apos;s writings in order to estimate the Superficiality of his attainments , when he plainly shews it by his eagerness to mention his own Productions in the first question he puts to me . &quot;
those studies and pursuits which partake of the dark and occult in Nature most strongly claimed my attention .
I have , therefore , only time enough to add that , from a hasty inspection of the fac similes of newspapers , c . , c . , I find that the great men in those days among the Amriccans , were one John , a Smith , and one Zacchary , a tailor .
he stopped abruptly , his countenance darkened , and its expression changed again and again under the influence of internal passion .
but it is needless to dwell upon this point .
but he was only ten years old ; and the hilarity of youth soon chased unreasonable care from his brow .
it was not until February that the desired signs of winter appeared .
long did I gaze on the city , but the day came not .
it must have , I concluded , since I now began to hear shocking guttural murmurs from that hitherto silent direction .
but drag me from this country ; and my power of self control vanishes , nor can I answer for the violence my agony of grief may lead me to commit . &quot;
sometimes she hung over her child , tracing her resemblance to the father , and fearful lest in after life she should display the same passions and uncontrollable impulses , that rendered him unhappy .
the practice , in mass , is therefore philosophical ; but it is not the less certain that it engenders vast individual error .
the banks of the Thames presented a new scene ; they were flat but fertile , and almost every town was marked by the remembrance of some story .
he said that &quot; These were men to whose indefatigable zeal modern philosophers were indebted for most of the foundations of their knowledge .
sometimes , without any apparent cause , I sank , little by little , into a condition of hemi syncope , or half swoon ; and , in this condition , without pain , without ability to stir , or , strictly speaking , to think , but with a dull lethargic consciousness of life and of the presence of those who surrounded my bed , I remained , until the crisis of the disease restored me , suddenly , to perfect sensation .
Elwood could not imagine what had set these superstitious creatures gossiping , but supposed their imaginations had been roused by Gilman &apos;s late hours and somnolent walking and talking on the one hand , and by the nearness of traditionally feared May Eve on the other hand .
was it a playful charge on the part of my Ligeia ?
it was not until I arrived at Brentford , that I perceived much change in the face of the country .
the thing is so plain .
yet I would not call them Voices of warning , that announce to us Only the inevitable .
he seemed calm even when he thought of that clawed grave and looked over his shoulder ; even when he thought of the carnivorous thing that gnawed and pawed at Sefton bars .
never mention to her the fatal name of Evadne .
a concealed spring must , I now know , exist ; and this corroboration of my idea convinced me that my premises at least , were correct , however mysterious still appeared the circumstances attending the nails .
as we find cycle within cycle without end , yet all revolving around one far distant centre which is the God head , may we not analogically suppose in the same manner , life within life , the less within the greater , and all within the Spirit divine ?
whether this story were true or not , the effects were certain .
you never regarded me as one of this world , but rather as a being , who for some penance was sent from the Kingdom of Shadows ; and she passed a few days weeping on the earth and longing to return to her native soil .
yet I will not attempt to expound them .
I am content to suffer alone while my sufferings shall endure ; when I die , I am well satisfied that abhorrence and opprobrium should load my memory .
this discovery was sufficient .
this letter in a degree recalled me to life , and I determined to quit my island at the expiration of two days .
the awesome quest had begun when West and I were students at the Miskatonic University Medical School in Arkham , vividly conscious for the first time of the thoroughly mechanical nature of life .
somehow these people seemed more disquieting than the dismal buildings , for almost every one had certain peculiarities of face and motions which I instinctively disliked without being able to define or comprehend them .
owing to the clear nights no daemoniac aggressions had taken place , and the completeness of our vain searches of house and country almost drove us to regard the lurking fear as a non material agency .
&quot; can you wonder that we are all aghast and mourn , when this appears changed ?
he would be hedged in by servants ; nobles , and the sons of nobles , were his companions ; all England rang with his name ; and his coming , like a thunderstorm , was heard from far : while I , unlettered and unfashioned , should , if I came in contact with him , in the judgment of his courtly followers , bear evidence in my very person to the propriety of that ingratitude which had made me the degraded being I appeared .
that is to say , it the bag was drawn over the whole bottom of the car , up its sides , and so on , along the outside of the ropes , to the upper rim or hoop where the net work is attached .
but these reflections partook not of the idiosyncrasy of my disease , and were such as would have occurred , under similar circumstances , to the ordinary mass of mankind .
man , you shall repent of the injuries you inflict . &quot;
a quart bottle of whiskey was easily , though not cheaply , obtained in the rear of a dingy variety store just off the Square in Eliot Street .
we might lose our selfish grief in the sublime aspect of its desolation .
most of the other possibly surviving results were things less easy to speak of for in later years West &apos;s scientific zeal had degenerated to an unhealthy and fantastic mania , and he had spent his chief skill in vitalising not entire human bodies but isolated parts of bodies , or parts joined to organic matter other than human .
here , generally , the slopes were nothing more than gentle inclinations , extending from east to west about one hundred and fifty yards .
the parallel which we imagine to have existed in the mind of Le Commerciel would only be sustained in the event of the two individuals &apos; traversing the whole city .
and as I looked , a certain object crossed or seemed to cross that dark rectangle ; burning into my brain a momentary conception of nightmare which was all the more maddening because analysis could not shew a single nightmarish quality in it .
it was our idea that our continued nocturnal presence would call forth whatever malign entity lurked there ; and that being prepared , we could dispose of the thing with one or the other of our provided means as soon as we had recognised and observed it sufficiently .
accordingly I sank into the nethermost abysses of despair when , at an inn in Rotterdam , I discovered that thieves had despoiled me of this sole means of salvation .
I beg permission to have a few witnesses examined concerning my character , and if their testimony shall not overweigh my supposed guilt , I must be condemned , although I would pledge my salvation on my innocence . &quot;
in that moment it seemed as if all the hidden terrors and monstrosities of earth had become articulate in an effort to overwhelm the human race .
its extreme width was eighteen inches .
&quot; te wing &quot; he cried , highly incensed , &quot; vat I pe do mit te wing ?
&quot; these were the reflections of my hours of despondency and solitude ; but when I contemplated the virtues of the cottagers , their amiable and benevolent dispositions , I persuaded myself that when they should become acquainted with my admiration of their virtues they would compassionate me and overlook my personal deformity .
but it is folly to suppose that the murder , if murder was committed on her body , could have been consummated soon enough to have enabled her murderers to throw the body into the river before midnight .
it would have been corroborative of this idea of motive .
so we must leave thee , thou marvel of the world ; we must bid farewell to thy clouds , and cold , and scarcity for ever thy manly hearts are still ; thy tale of power and liberty at its close Bereft of man , O little isle the ocean waves will buffet thee , and the raven flap his wings over thee ; thy soil will be birth place of weeds , thy sky will canopy barrenness .
was there no injustice in this ?
V. We , certainly but not the worm .
the little account , about which we quarreled and finally parted , cannot , in any item , be thought overcharged , by gentlemen really conversant with the nature of the business .
among other things , I hold painfully in mind a certain singular perversion and amplification of the wild air of the last waltz of Von Weber .
it was the third house from the top of the street , and by far the tallest of them all .
it is the nature of thought to be irrevocable .
and the rumor of this new presence having spread itself whisperingly around , there arose at length from the whole company a buzz , or murmur , expressive of disapprobation and surprise then , finally , of terror , of horror , and of disgust .
&quot; ah &quot; said I , &quot; I see how it is .
no creature came near her , as her strength failed .
&quot; strange you shouldn &apos;t know me though , isn &apos;t it ? &quot;
when my fears and astonishment had in some degree subsided , I had little difficulty in supposing it to be some mighty volcanic fragment ejected from that world to which I was so rapidly approaching , and , in all probability , one of that singular class of substances occasionally picked up on the earth , and termed meteoric stones for want of a better appellation .
they are puzzled , too , by the seeming impossibility of reconciling the voices heard in contention , with the facts that no one was discovered up stairs but the assassinated Mademoiselle L &apos;Espanaye , and that there were no means of egress without the notice of the party ascending .
they congregated round me ; the unstained snowy mountain top , the glittering pinnacle , the pine woods , and ragged bare ravine , the eagle , soaring amidst the clouds they all gathered round me and bade me be at peace .
&quot; how ? &quot; &quot; you are not of the masons . &quot;
awe stricken , his first impulse was to rush to the foreman .
and where is his corpse ?
Klenze chafed under the strain , and was annoyed by the merest trifles such as the school of dolphins which gathered about the U in increasing numbers , and the growing intensity of that southward current which was not on our chart .
sometimes when I had planned the next morning for my escape a word of more than usual affection from her lips made me postpone my resolution .
I was benevolent and good ; misery made me a fiend .
his cousin , Ernest B. Aspinwall , Esq . , of Chicago , is fully ten years his senior ; and distinctly recalls a change in the boy after the autumn of .
the whole village was roused ; some fled , some attacked me , until , grievously bruised by stones and many other kinds of missile weapons , I escaped to the open country and fearfully took refuge in a low hovel , quite bare , and making a wretched appearance after the palaces I had beheld in the village .
and yet above all things it is necessary that your article have an air of erudition , or at least afford evidence of extensive general reading .
the generous approbation of so clear sighted a journal as the &quot; Mole &quot; penetrated my soul with delight .
finding Perdita immoveable , we consulted as to the best means of furthering her purpose .
in the year , the last of its kings , the ancient friend of my father , had abdicated in compliance with the gentle force of the remonstrances of his subjects , and a republic was instituted .
this plug I pushed in or pulled out , as might happen , until , after a few experiments , it arrived at that exact degree of tightness , at which the water , oozing from the hole , and falling into the pitcher below , would fill the latter to the brim in the period of sixty minutes .
sometimes he went up to London to visit Raymond , and watch the progress of events .
he thinks , that he ought to be satisfied ; he imagines , that his present situation precludes the possibility of aggrandisement ; he does not therefore , even in his own heart , plan change for himself .
if , the feet of Marie being small , those of the corpse were also small , the increase of probability that the body was that of Marie would not be an increase in a ratio merely arithmetical , but in one highly geometrical , or accumulative .
on the very Day it appear &apos;d , there was also publish &apos;d a Satire in imitation of Juvenal , intitul &apos;d &quot; London &quot; , by the then unknown Johnson ; and this so struck the Town , that many Gentlemen of taste declared , it was the Work of a greater t than Mr. Pope .
all the world , by the death of his beloved Elinor , was changed to him , and he could no longer remain in any spot where he had seen her or where her image mingled with the most rapturous hopes had brightened all around with a light of joy which would now be transformed to a darkness blacker than midnight since she , the sun of his life , was set for ever .
one of these assumed , that the &quot; gravitating power &quot; extended but a short distance from the earth &apos;s surface , and , accordingly , we find our voyager &quot; carried insensibly around the globe , &quot; etc .
as I told you , there probably ain &apos;t more &apos;n people in the whole town in spite of all the streets they say there are .
at her most courteous of invitations , I entered passing first into a tolerably wide vestibule .
my opened eyes sought the couch of pain in curious horror , but the blue eyes were still calmly gazing , and the countenance was still intelligently animated .
the attachment which Romero manifested toward me was undoubtedly commenced through the quaint and ancient Hindoo ring which I wore when not engaged in active labour .
but , had the murder taken place at any moment between nine o &apos;clock in the morning of Sunday , and a quarter before midnight , there would still have been time enough &apos; to throw the body into the river before midnight.&apos;
they have been trained without difficulty to their present profession , and attend upon their respective owners in the capacity of valets de chambre .
I turned with loathing from the woman who could utter so unfeeling a speech to a person just saved , on the very edge of death ; but I felt languid and unable to reflect on all that had passed .
he pictured to himself a youth , whose eyes sparkled with genius , whose person was attenuated by famine .
since you will have the exact time I &apos;ll why I &apos;ll oblige you for once : &quot; &quot; dear uncle &quot; &quot; Hush , sir &quot; drowning my voice &quot; I &apos;ll oblige you for once .
the republican institutions of our country have produced simpler and happier manners than those which prevail in the great monarchies that surround it .
I forget the title of the work ; but the means of the voyage are more deplorably ill conceived than are even the ganzas of our friend the Signor Gonzales .
but the same feelings and opinions which had before restrained her , acted with redoubled force ; for she knew that the reflection that he had occasioned her death , would pursue Raymond through life , poisoning every enjoyment , clouding every prospect .
if the body had been kept in its mangled state on shore until Tuesday night , some trace would be found on shore of the murderers .
this terror is not due altogether to the sinister manner of his recent disappearance , but was engendered by the whole nature of his life work , and first gained its acute form more than seventeen years ago , when we were in the third year of our course at the Miskatonic University Medical School in Arkham .
inspirited by this wind of promise , my daydreams become more fervent and vivid .
let me now advert not to the whole testimony respecting these voices but to what was peculiar in that testimony .
of marble and porphyry are the houses , and roofed with glittering gold that reflects the rays of the sun and enhances the splendour of the cities as blissful gods view them from the distant peaks .
Talbot took a seat at his side .
what had the vice admiralty &apos;s investigation brought out , and what was known of the noxious cult in Dunedin ?
he roamed from chamber to chamber with hurried , unequal , and objectless step .
we will ascertain beyond a doubt the validity of the affidavits in regard to his whereabouts on the Sunday .
on April nd at about p.m. every trace of Wilcox &apos;s malady suddenly ceased .
&quot; but , good Jupiter what is the matter in the crowd behind us ? &quot; behind us , did you say ? oh ah I perceive .
nothing was to be said of the lady &apos;s decease ; and , as it was well understood that Mr. Wyatt had engaged passage for his wife , it became necessary that some person should personate her during the voyage .
this will be sure and cut him to the heart .
there had , they said , been a huge robed negro , a little old woman in rags , and a young white man in his night clothes .
I entered , carrying my bicycle , and closed the door behind me .
he &apos;d orter hev &apos; em as well sot as he kin , for they &apos;re goin &apos; to be all of his larnin &apos; . &quot;
but if I am right , a great point is gained .
&apos;A gang of miscreants made their appearance , behaved boisterously , ate and drank without making payment , followed in the route of the young man and girl , returned to the inn about dusk , and recrossed the river as if in great haste . &apos; &quot; now this &apos; great haste &apos; very possibly seemed greater haste in the eyes of Madame Deluc , since she dwelt lingeringly and lamentingly upon her violated cakes and ale cakes and ale for which she might still have entertained a faint hope of compensation .
across the chasm , the wavelets washed the base of the Cyclopean monolith ; on whose surface I could now trace both inscriptions and crude sculptures .
she was a good girl , and told me very sweetly that I might have her plum and all whenever I could badger my grand uncle Rumgudgeon , into the necessary consent .
Ryland , whom I have so long detained , has stipulated that I shall suffer him to depart before the end of this month .
the man came upon me at about two one cloudy August morning , as I was threading a series of detached courtyards ; now accessible only through the unlighted hallways of intervening buildings , but once forming parts of a continuous network of picturesque alleys .
meanwhile they would take the spiky image around to the various museums and to certain professors ; seeking identification and stating that it had been found in a public rubbish can .
the past appeared to me in the light of a frightful dream ; yet the vessel in which I was , the wind that blew me from the detested shore of Ireland , and the sea which surrounded me told me too forcibly that I was deceived by no vision and that Clerval , my friend and dearest companion , had fallen a victim to me and the monster of my creation .
the bargeman towed it under the barge office .
that was the document I read , and now I have placed it in the tin box beside the bas relief and the papers of Professor Angell .
accordingly , in less than a second , I felt all the blood in my body rushing to my temples , and immediately thereupon , a concussion , which I shall never forget , burst abruptly through the night and seemed to rip the very firmament asunder .
the pains in my head and ears returned , at intervals , with violence , and I still continued to bleed occasionally at the nose ; but , upon the whole , I suffered much less than might have been expected .
its streets were blocked up with snow the few passengers seemed palsied , and frozen by the ungenial visitation of winter .
at length , the populace took the alarm , and pursued me .
I had not a moment to lose , but seizing the hand of the old man , I cried , &apos; Now is the time Save and protect me You and your family are the friends whom I seek .
yet , although I saw that the features of Ligeia were not of a classic regularity although I perceived that her loveliness was indeed &quot; exquisite , &quot; and felt that there was much of &quot; strangeness &quot; pervading it , yet I have tried in vain to detect the irregularity and to trace home my own perception of &quot; the strange . &quot;
in a rational age like the eighteenth century it was unwise for a man of learning to talk about wild sights and strange scenes under a Congo moon ; of the gigantic walls and pillars of a forgotten city , crumbling and vine grown , and of damp , silent , stone steps leading interminably down into the darkness of abysmal treasure vaults and inconceivable catacombs .
I started from my sleep with horror ; a cold dew covered my forehead , my teeth chattered , and every limb became convulsed ; when , by the dim and yellow light of the moon , as it forced its way through the window shutters , I beheld the wretch the miserable monster whom I had created .
upon examining it I discovered that one of the raisin stems which I had been filliping about the room during the discourse of the Angel of the Odd , had flown through the fractured crystal , and lodging , singularly enough , in the key hole , with an end projecting outward , had thus arrested the revolution of the minute hand .
then had followed an armed searching party , whose purpose whatever it may have been originally became that of a sheriff &apos;s posse after one of the seldom popular state troopers had by accident observed , then questioned , and finally joined the seekers .
those who drew me on board were my old mates and daily companions but they knew me no more than they would have known a traveller from the spirit land .
look , I am prepared ; there is the death draught , let us drink it together and willingly joyfully quit this hated round of daily life .
when Wilbur was a year and seven months old in September of his size and accomplishments were almost alarming .
in ratiocination , not less than in literature , it is the epigram which is the most immediately and the most universally appreciated .
their number , I say , would have prevented the bewildering and unreasoning terror which I have imagined to paralyze the single man .
then , whispered Castro , those first men formed the cult around small idols which the Great Ones shewed them ; idols brought in dim aeras from dark stars .
in the next , a dozen stout arms were toiling at the wall .
does not every one love and admire him ?
what kind of foreign blood if any these beings had , it was impossible to tell .
it is the knell of my father which I hear . &quot;
&quot; I sent for you to night , &quot; he said , &quot; not so much to administer to my bodily ailment , as to satisfy me concerning certain psychal impressions which , of late , have occasioned me much anxiety and surprise .
the storm was still abroad in all its wrath as I found myself crossing the old causeway .
in this way he became a kind of humorist , for he did not see that even humour is empty in a mindless universe devoid of any true standard of consistency or inconsistency .
his treatise upon &quot; shades and Shadows &quot; has immortalized him .
only once in a while a lanthorn bobbed horribly through serpentine alleys on its way to overtake the throng that was now slipping speechlessly into the church .
our future is perfected , ultimate , immortal .
it was a melancholy reflection ; and in spite of the diminution of evil produced , it struck on the heart as a wretched mockery .
for some minutes the old man seemed too much exhausted to speak .
his form was very slight , thin almost to cadaverousness ; and his voice proved phenomenally soft and hollow , though not particularly deep .
not a thread in all his raiment not a line in all the marked and singular lineaments of his face which was not , even in the most absolute identity , mine own It was Wilson ; but he spoke no longer in a whisper , and I could have fancied that I myself was speaking while he said : &quot; you have conquered , and I yield .
the confusion and bustle in the streets were terrible .
&quot; my mode of life in my hovel was uniform .
it is true that his presence dissipated these clouds ; his warm hearted frankness , brilliant sallies , and confiding demeanour were irresistible : it was only when at a distance , while still renewed tales of his errors were poured into his royal friend &apos;s ear , that he lost his influence .
later I heard that a similar notion entered into some of the wild ancient tales of the common folk a notion likewise alluding to ghoulish , wolfish shapes taken by smoke from the great chimney , and queer contours assumed by certain of the sinuous tree roots that thrust their way into the cellar through the loose foundation stones .
in the meantime we were shown into a small parlor , and sat down .
it is almost superfluous to add that the glasses of the instrument , as worn by the old lady , had been exchanged by her for a pair better adapted to my years .
you see it is not generally known , and looks recherche .
there are many things on the Earth , which would be nihility to the inhabitants of Venus many things visible and tangible in Venus , which we could not be brought to appreciate as existing at all .
West was more avid than I , so that it almost seemed to me that he looked half covetously at any very healthy living physique .
but I could not force it open ; and in my tremor , it slipped from my hands , and fell heavily , and burst into pieces ; and from it , with a rattling sound , there rolled out some instruments of dental surgery , intermingled with thirty two small , white and ivory looking substances that were scattered to and fro about the floor .
made bold by this heaven sent circumstance , I began to resume perfect openness in going to the vault ; confident that no one could witness my entrance .
during the night of April the new development occurred .
power therefore was the aim of all his endeavours ; aggrandizement the mark at which he for ever shot .
I afterwards found that these labours , performed by an invisible hand , greatly astonished them ; and once or twice I heard them , on these occasions , utter the words &apos; good spirit , &apos; &apos; wonderful &apos; ; but I did not then understand the signification of these terms .
she detailed the progress of the mournful change , and entreated Adrian and myself to go up to London , and endeavour to remedy the encreasing evil : &quot; tell him , &quot; she cried , &quot; tell Lord Raymond , that my presence shall no longer annoy him .
and it is only in common with other talents that it produces effects which may be fully enjoyed in solitude .
I caused the chaise to advance a little , waited till the people of the inn had retired , and then made the post boy draw up the carriage to the spot where Idris , impatient , and now somewhat recovered , stood waiting for me .
I knocked off , however , the lid of my coffin , and stepped out .
I unfastened one of these , and taking two ropes tied them tightly across the rim of the wicker work from one side to the other ; placing them about a foot apart and parallel so as to form a kind of shelf , upon which I placed the keg , and steadied it in a horizontal position .
for a moment I was too much amazed to think with accuracy .
Berenice I call upon her name Berenice and from the gray ruins of memory a thousand tumultuous recollections are startled at the sound Ah , vividly is her image before me now , as in the early days of her light heartedness and joy Oh , gorgeous yet fantastic beauty Oh , sylph amid the shrubberies of Arnheim Oh , Naiad among its fountains And then then all is mystery and terror , and a tale which should not be told .
he wrapt her in his arms ; he imprinted breathless kisses on her burning lips ; he called to her in a voice of subdued anguish by the tenderest names ; &quot; return Elinor ; I am with you ; your life , your love .
suddenly very suddenly this assumed a distinct and definite existence , in a circle of more than a mile in diameter .
resolved to try another building , I groped my way back toward the courtyard , but stopped short when close to the doorway .
yet she appeared confident in innocence and did not tremble , although gazed on and execrated by thousands , for all the kindness which her beauty might otherwise have excited was obliterated in the minds of the spectators by the imagination of the enormity she was supposed to have committed .
a cavern of gold , lying deep below a mountain lake , had enriched its venerable finder beyond his wildest dreams , and now formed the seat of extensive tunnelling operations on the part of the corporation to which it had finally been sold .
it was strange to him to see a female in extreme youth , I was not yet twenty , evidently belonging to the first classes of society possessing every accomplishment an excellent education could bestow , living alone on a desolate health sic One on whose forehead the impress of grief was strongly marked , and whose words and motions betrayed that her thoughts did not follow them but were intent on far other ideas ; bitter and overwhelming miseries .
in this attempt I soon saw that I should be successful or at least I soon fancied that my success would be complete and I am sure that all in the room were prepared to see the patient awaken .
I now discovered to my extreme delight that I could have spoken had not my mouth been tied up with the pocket handkerchief .
but I perceive your thoughts ; you do not credit my narrative and do not intend to pursue my enemy with the punishment which is his desert . &quot;
this summer extinguished our hopes , the vessel of society was wrecked , and the shattered raft , which carried the few survivors over the sea of misery , was riven and tempest tost .
at the name Tim Hurlygurly the whole assembly leaped from their name seats .
this letter will reach England by a merchantman now on its homeward voyage from Archangel ; more fortunate than I , who may not see my native land , perhaps , for many years .
these latter grew in pots which were carefully buried in the soil , so as to give the plants the appearance of being indigenous .
it was half past five ; I could easily walk to the insurance office in five minutes ; and my usual siestas had never been known to exceed five and twenty .
then I was digging frantically into the mound which had stretched nearest me ; digging desperately , shiveringly , but almost jubilantly ; digging and at last shrieking aloud with some unplaced emotion as I came upon a tunnel or burrow just like the one through which I had crawled on that other daemoniac night .
old Zebulon Whateley , of a branch that hovered about half way between soundness and decadence , made darkly wild suggestions about rites that ought to be practiced on the hill tops .
we admitted no visitors .
ha would a madman have been so wise as this ?
only them , the old uns as wants to come back . . .
to his extreme horror and astonishment , the head of the gigantic steed had , in the meantime , altered its position .
confronted at last with the Atlantis I had formerly deemed largely a myth , I was the most eager of explorers .
&quot; one day , when I was oppressed by cold , I found a fire which had been left by some wandering beggars , and was overcome with delight at the warmth I experienced from it .
did those ancient , unplumbed warrens teem with a twisted , uncatalogued , and unsuspected life ?
at nine o &apos;clock I had again lost sight of land to the eastward , but not before I became aware that the balloon was drifting rapidly to the N. N. W. The convexity of the ocean beneath me was very evident indeed , although my view was often interrupted by the masses of cloud which floated to and fro .
when a rise in the road brings the mountains in view above the deep woods , the feeling of strange uneasiness is increased .
his courtiers have left him in the lurch , and his concubines have followed so excellent an example .
determined to visit Jan in person , he went into the mountains on horseback .
&quot; twelve &quot; said the bell .
what seems to me the chief ingenuity in this whole business , is the fact for repeated experiment has convinced me it is a fact that the circular opening in question is visible from no other attainable point of view than that afforded by the narrow ledge upon the face of the rock .
most daemoniacal of all shocks is that of the abysmally unexpected and grotesquely unbelievable .
gradually , however , he fell into a more and more hopeless state of stupor , and , finally , it was thought that he died .
&quot; get up the main trunk first , and then I will tell you which way to go and here stop take this beetle with you . &quot; &quot; de bug , Massa Will de goole bug &quot; cried the negro , drawing back in dismay &quot; what for mus tote de bug way up de tree ?
my father &apos;s age rendered him extremely averse to delay .
I besought her to calm herself ; a kindly shower of tears relieved her , and by degrees she related her tale of fear and peril .
from Italy they visited Germany and France .
the convention of assumed pity spilt mawkishness on his characters , while the myth of an important reality and significant human events and emotions debased all his high fantasy into thin veiled allegory and cheap social satire .
as I waited on the rough , mossy rock which served as a doorstep , I glanced at the neighbouring windows and the panes of the transom above me , and noticed that although old , rattling , and almost opaque with dirt , they were not broken .
you would deceive me , but I will not be deceived .
&apos;He persists , &apos; says the paper , &apos; in asserting the corpse to be that of Marie , but cannot give a circumstance , in addition to those which we have commented upon , to make others believe.&apos;
&quot; why , surely you are not serious , &quot; retorted De L &apos;Omelette .
if I had ever seen what Pickman saw but no Here , let &apos;s have a drink before we get any deeper .
as for Snobbs any person who should look at me would be instantly aware that my name wasn &apos;t Snobbs .
and some people even spoke of things as trivial as the deserted motor car found in Ship Street , or certain especially inhuman cries , probably of a stray animal or migratory bird , heard in the night by wakeful citizens .
&quot; God , what I seen senct I was fifteen year &apos; old Mene , mene , tekel , upharsin the folks as was missin &apos; , an &apos; them as kilt theirselves them as told things in Arkham or Ipswich or sech places was all called crazy , like you &apos;re a callin &apos; me right naow but God , what I seen They &apos;d a kilt me long ago fer what I know , only I &apos;d took the fust an &apos; secon &apos; Oaths o &apos; Dagon offen Obed , so was pertected unlessen a jury of &apos; em proved I told things knowin &apos; an &apos; delib &apos;rit . . .
Obed he died in &apos; seventy eight , an &apos; all the next gen &apos;ration is gone naow the fust wife &apos;s children dead , an &apos; the rest . . .
I was shuddering because not one of my pursuers , despite some hideous pantings , gruntings , and subdued barkings at odd intervals , was uttering an unmuffled or intelligible vocal sound .
my greatest pleasure was the enjoyment of a serene sky amidst these verdant woods : yet I loved all the changes of Nature ; and rain , and storm , and the beautiful clouds of heaven brought their delights with them .
I passed two houses shewing signs of habitation , one of which had faint lights in upper rooms , yet met with no obstacle .
very soon , a strong suffocating odor assailed my nostrils ; the house , I clearly perceived , was on fire .
these tales , of course , are obsolete and ridiculous ; because they come down from very old times .
amidst the wilds of Tartary and Russia , although he still evaded me , I have ever followed in his track .
eight houses were entered by a nameless thing which strewed red death in its wake in all , seventeen maimed and shapeless remnants of bodies were left behind by the voiceless , sadistic monster that crept abroad .
she had been out the whole of the night on which the murder had been committed and towards morning had been perceived by a market woman not far from the spot where the body of the murdered child had been afterwards found .
it was from the artists and poets that the pertinent answers came , and I know that panic would have broken loose had they been able to compare notes .
so he had not been sleep walking this time .
soon she imagined , that fate demanded this sacrifice from her , as a mark she was devoted to Raymond , and that it must be made with cheerfulness .
as the hills draw nearer , one heeds their wooded sides more than their stone crowned tops .
in a fit of petulance , I remodelled them thus ; &quot; I am safe I am safe yes if I be not fool enough to make open confession &quot; No sooner had I spoken these words , than I felt an icy chill creep to my heart .
his soul is as hellish as his form , full of treachery and fiend like malice .
guess yew hail from Bosting , don &apos;t ye ?
upon his death in his half breed son Pierre traded it among other things to some emissaries of the Sacs and Foxes , and it was found outside the chief &apos;s tepee a generation later by Charles de Langlade , founder of the trading post at Green Bay , Wisconsin .
evidently Erich Zann &apos;s world of beauty lay in some far cosmos of the imagination .
their meaning , wondrous and eloquent , has often repaid my toil , soothing me in sorrow , and exciting my imagination to daring flights , through the immensity of nature and the mind of man .
here Warren &apos;s whisper swelled into a cry ; a cry that gradually rose to a shriek fraught with all the horror of the ages &quot; Curse these hellish things legions My God Beat it Beat it Beat it &quot; After that was silence .
return before Talbot came back and might she not be thus lost to me forever ?
every one has been to Edinburgh the classic Edina .
looking toward the giant willow in the centre of the cemetery , whose trunk has nearly engulfed an ancient , illegible slab , I had made a fantastic remark about the spectral and unmentionable nourishment which the colossal roots must be sucking in from that hoary , charnel earth ; when my friend chided me for such nonsense and told me that since no interments had occurred there for over a century , nothing could possibly exist to nourish the tree in other than an ordinary manner .
and then , for a moment , all is still , and all is silent save the voice of the clock .
if we knew what we are , we should do as Sir Arthur Jermyn did ; and Arthur Jermyn soaked himself in oil and set fire to his clothing one night .
it was not three decrepid old hags that bent over their pot throwing in the grim ingredients of the magic charm , but forms frightful , unreal , and fanciful .
veiled for ever to the world &apos;s callous eye must be the transport of that moment .
it was a minute anatomical and generally descriptive account of the large fulvous Ourang Outang of the East Indian Islands .
he was a loathsome , gorilla like thing , with abnormally long arms which I could not help calling fore legs , and a face that conjured up thoughts of unspeakable Congo secrets and tom tom poundings under an eerie moon .
yet there was so much sweetness and docility about Clara , that your admiration was excited ; and if the moods of mind are calculated to paint the cheek with beauty , and endow motions with grace , surely her contemplations must have been celestial ; since every lineament was moulded into loveliness , and her motions were more harmonious than the elegant boundings of the fawns of her native forest .
my spasms it would have been difficult to beat .
and now while he suffered intense misery he determined to plunge into still more intense , and strove for greater emotion than that which already tore him .
&quot; I am not sure of it .
void of clothing , this hybrid spawn were braying , bellowing , and writhing about a monstrous ring shaped bonfire ; in the centre of which , revealed by occasional rifts in the curtain of flame , stood a great granite monolith some eight feet in height ; on top of which , incongruous with its diminutiveness , rested the noxious carven statuette .
I had little object certainly no hope in these researches ; but a vague curiosity prompted me to continue them .
he was the murderer I could not doubt it .
I looked upon it , therefore , as something of a coincidence , when the door of our apartment was thrown open and admitted our old acquaintance , Monsieur G , the Prefect of the Parisian police .
he didn &apos;t dass sell the pieces like they was , fer folks ud be all the time askin &apos; questions .
in accordance with my plan , I attracted his attention by brandishing my newly purchased bottle ; and soon realised that he had begun to shuffle wistfully after me as I turned into Waite Street on my way to the most deserted region I could think of .
nothing is more easy than to err in our notions of magnitude .
September th The die is cast ; I have consented to return if we are not destroyed .
someone in the lead began sobbing out words , and the Arkham men started violently when those words developed a coherent form .
the sons and their sisters had come to look very queer , especially the elder ones ; and it was said that their health was failing .
a London paper mentions the decease of a person from a singular cause .
the latter was all one radiant harem of garden beauties .
so it came to pass one day that Romnod seemed older than Iranon , though he had been very small when Iranon had found him watching for green budding branches in Teloth beside the sluggish stone banked Zuro .
he edited with distinguished ability the last edition of &quot; South on the bones . &quot;
you have an immense head , too , and it must hold a great many brains .
I believed myself to be polluted by the unnatural love I had inspired , and that I was a creature cursed and set apart by nature .
it was thus a terrible thing for this lady to hear the painter speak of his desire to portray even his young bride .
had the skull been then there , of course I could not have failed to notice it .
the moment at length came , when the last blow was given to the last of the house : the youthful survivor of her race sat alone among the dead .
what constitutes the essence , the nare , the principle of diddling is , in fact , peculiar to the class of creatures that wear coats and pantaloons .
and when it gave from those grinning jaws a deep , sardonic bay as of some gigantic hound , and I saw that it held in its gory , filthy claw the lost and fateful amulet of green jade , I merely screamed and ran away idiotically , my screams soon dissolving into peals of hysterical laughter .
not from any human throat were they born , for the organs of man can yield no such acoustic perversions .
when the great excitement occurred about the forgery on the house of Gutsmuth Co . , suspicion was directed toward Von Kempelen , on account of his having purchased a considerable property in Gasperitch Lane , and his refusing , when questioned , to explain how he became possessed of the purchase money .
originally a farm or semi farm building , it followed the average New England colonial lines of the middle eighteenth century the prosperous peaked roof sort , with two stories and dormerless attic , and with the Georgian doorway and interior panelling dictated by the progress of taste at that time .
one morning , however , finding that my path lay through a deep wood , I ventured to continue my journey after the sun had risen ; the day , which was one of the first of spring , cheered even me by the loveliness of its sunshine and the balminess of the air .
we were now in the belt of surf that always surrounds the whirl ; and I thought , of course , that another moment would plunge us into the abyss down which we could only see indistinctly on account of the amazing velocity with which we wore borne along .
a large park was one of its appendages , laid out with great taste , and plentifully stocked with game .
I can not describe to you what were sic the frantic nature of my sensations while I resided there ; I was often on the verge of madness .
they thought what they &apos;d got was well wuth all they &apos;d had to give up an &apos; I guess Obed kind o &apos; come to think the same hisself when he &apos;d chewed over old Walakea &apos;s story a bit .
the weather kept fair , and for uncounted days I drifted aimlessly beneath the scorching sun ; waiting either for some passing ship , or to be cast on the shores of some habitable land .
I should not have understood the purport of this book had not Felix , in reading it , given very minute explanations .
the passage through the vague abysses would be frightful , for the Walpurgis rhythm would be vibrating , and at last he would have to hear that hitherto veiled cosmic pulsing which he so mortally dreaded .
there were many reasons for the close keeping of this place in my family , and I have not been remiss in discharging such obligations .
the cosmos of our waking knowledge , born from such an universe as a bubble is born from the pipe of a jester , touches it only as such a bubble may touch its sardonic source when sucked back by the jester &apos;s whim .
the earth was to me a magic lantern and I a gazer , and a listener but no actor ; but then came the transporting and soul reviving era of my existence : my father returned and I could pour my warm affections on a human heart ; there was a new sun and a new earth created to me ; the waters of existence sparkled : joy joy but , alas what grief My bliss was more rapid than the progress of a sunbeam on a mountain , which discloses its glades woods , and then leaves it dark blank ; to my happiness followed madness and agony , closed by despair .
the winters in the latitude of Sullivan &apos;s Island are seldom very severe , and in the fall of the year it is a rare event indeed when a fire is considered necessary .
he ees vairy queer in hees seeckness all day he take funnee smelling baths , and he cannot get excite or warm .
then Olney saw lingering against the translucent squares of each of the little dim windows in succession a queer black outline as the caller moved inquisitively about before leaving ; and he was glad his host had not answered the knocking .
Raymond had somewhat raised himself at our approach , but it was with difficulty that he exerted himself even thus much .
oh , bright was the seraph Ermengarde and in that knowledge I had room for none other .
he felt as if he had been transported to fairy land and enjoyed a happiness seldom tasted by man .
in a dream I fled from that haunted and accursed pile , and ran swiftly and silently in the moonlight .
I had no idea that misery could arise from love , and this lesson that all at last must learn was taught me in a manner few are obliged to receive it .
they may have been what that boy saw if he was sensitive he wouldn &apos;t have needed anything in the window glass to unhinge him .
reports of these strange proceedings reached us , and we were undecided what method to adopt to restore our friend to himself and his country , when Perdita suddenly appeared among us .
as the sun went down , the gale freshened into an absolute hurricane , and the ocean beneath was clearly visible on account of its phosphorescence .
he patronized du Pont the bellows maker , and he died miserably in attempting to smoke a cigar .
never tell me again that I am not at heart an antiquarian .
half surprised by the novelty of these sensations , I allowed myself to be borne away by them , and forgetting my solitude and deformity , dared to be happy .
this was a new scene to us mountaineers ; the majestic oaks , the quantity of game , and the herds of stately deer were all novelties to us .
certainly they transcend anything we dream of in Nature and the universe ; yet in no normal fashion can I explain those disappearances which were known to all men after it was over .
boats , yachts , and ships have been carried away by not guarding against it before they were within its reach .
in my boyish days she was the universe to me .
this speech calmed me .
&apos;There was evidence , &apos; it is said , &apos; of a struggle ; and the earth was trampled , the bushes were broken , &apos; but the petticoat and the scarf are found deposited as if upon shelves .
&quot; fiend , &quot; I exclaimed , &quot; your task is already fulfilled &quot; I thought of Elizabeth , of my father , and of Clerval all left behind , on whom the monster might satisfy his sanguinary and merciless passions .
listen I entreat you to the words of one who has himself nurtured desperate thoughts , and longed with impatient desire for death , but who has at length trampled the phantom under foot , and crushed his sting .
there were three persons in our party , and two of them have already been the subject of remark .
not for many weeks did we hear of anything suitable ; though we talked with morgue and hospital authorities , ostensibly in the college &apos;s interest , as often as we could without exciting suspicion .
it slowly swings itself around until its prow points toward the sun .
the weakness itself , however , has always much annoyed me , and I have resorted to every remedy short of wearing glasses .
here we perceive the Signor Gonzales , with point ruffles and a huge periwig , seated astride something which resembles very closely a broomstick , and borne aloft by a multitude of wild swans ganzas who had strings reaching from their tails to the machine .
West could not withhold admiration for the fortitude of his foe , but because of this was even more determined to prove to him the truth of his amazing doctrines .
science , already oppressive with its shocking revelations , will perhaps be the ultimate exterminator of our human species if separate species we be for its reserve of unguessed horrors could never be borne by mortal brains if loosed upon the world .
could it , indeed , be the living Rowena who confronted me ?
courage and confidence were mounting ; though the twilight of the almost perpendicular wooded hill which lay toward the end of their short cut , and among whose fantastic ancient trees they had to scramble as if up a ladder , put these qualities to a severe test .
yew &apos;ll know , boys , arter I &apos;m gone , whether they git me er not .
&quot; my good friends , &quot; said I , &quot; will you be so kind as to tell me the name of this town and inform me where I am ? &quot; &quot; you will know that soon enough , &quot; replied a man with a hoarse voice .
I might enter into a long detail of the means I used , first to secure myself a slight maintenance for the remainder of my life , and afterwards to ensure the conviction of my death : I might , but I will not .
didn &apos;t I give you back your tobacco ?
I had never the happiness of seeing him , but his name is one of my earliest recollections : he stands written in my mind &apos;s tablets as the type of all that was gallant , amiable , and fascinating in man .
I shot all six men , for it was necessary , and made sure that none remained alive .
to make his name even as an holy spot of ground , enclosing it from all hostile attacks by our praise , shedding on it the blossoms of love and regret , guarding it from decay , and bequeathing it untainted to posterity .
she was dressed in mourning , and her countenance , always engaging , was rendered , by the solemnity of her feelings , exquisitely beautiful .
what wonder then , that the words , however silly , of that prediction , should have succeeded in setting and keeping at variance two families already predisposed to quarrel by every instigation of hereditary jealousy ?
then , in the midst of that daemoniac spectacle , I saw a fresh horror which brought cries to my lips and sent me fumbling and staggering toward that unlocked door to the quiet street , careless of what abnormal terrors I loosed upon the world , or what thoughts or judgments of men I brought down upon my head .
there was no beauty ; no freedom we can see that from the architectural and household remains , and the poisonous sermons of the cramped divines .
turning to retrace my steps , my eye fell upon a small trap door with a ring , which lay directly beneath my feet .
his manners in private were even more mild and attractive than in public , for there was a certain dignity in his mien during his lecture which in his own house was replaced by the greatest affability and kindness .
it happened then so the fates ordered it that among the naval acquaintances of my betrothed , were two gentlemen who had just set foot upon the shores of England , after a year &apos;s absence , each , in foreign travel .
&quot; I do guess them , &quot; said Idris , &quot; and such as they are , I would not venture to combat them .
I have you all about me now you , the companion of my infancy ; Adrian , as dear to me as if bound by the ties of blood ; Idris , the sister of my heart , and her lovely offspring .
ill fated and mysterious man bewildered in the brilliancy of thine own imagination , and fallen in the flames of thine own youth Again in fancy I behold thee Once more thy form hath risen before me not oh not as thou art in the cold valley and shadow but as thou shouldst be squandering away a life of magnificent meditation in that city of dim visions , thine own Venice which is a star beloved Elysium of the sea , and the wide windows of whose Palladian palaces look down with a deep and bitter meaning upon the secrets of her silent waters .
he was by nature reserved , and when one is aged and feeble one &apos;s reserve is doubly strong .
one was old , with silver hairs and a countenance beaming with benevolence and love ; the younger was slight and graceful in his figure , and his features were moulded with the finest symmetry , yet his eyes and attitude expressed the utmost sadness and despondency .
Raymond , while he knew that his plans and prospects were to be discussed and decided during the expected debate , was gay and careless .
it was now the opinion , or rather the wish , of the physicians , that M. Valdemar should be suffered to remain undisturbed in his present apparently tranquil condition , until death should supervene and this , it was generally agreed , must now take place within a few minutes .
&quot; how much fudder is got for go ? &quot; &quot; how high up are you ? &quot;
while I know I am speaking , I have a vague impression that some strange and perhaps terrible mediation will be needed to bear what I say to the points where I wish to be heard .
at past midnight I was awaked by a violent knocking .
I seemed to feel that I had an important part to play , without exactly understanding what it was .
but cold were the sensations excited by words , burning though they were , and describing the death and misery of thousands , compared to what I felt in looking on the corpse of this unhappy stranger .
&quot; I do not doubt that he hovers near the spot which I inhabit , and if he has indeed taken refuge in the Alps , he may be hunted like the chamois and destroyed as a beast of prey .
were they , surviving Adrian and myself , to find themselves protectorless in the world ?
once in his ascent Randolph crossed a rushing stream whose falls a little way off sang runic incantations to the lurking fauns and aegipans and dryads .
later on we &apos;ll try it .
&quot; you infernal scoundrel &quot; cried Legrand , apparently much relieved , &quot; what do you mean by telling me such nonsense as that ?
as she spoke she twirled in her fingers the identical double eye glass which had so overwhelmed me with confusion at the opera .
she walked up and down the room , gazed wildly when any one entered , fancying that they might be the announcers of her doom .
we build now on his intellectual faculties , we establish our hopes on his moral propensities .
&quot; but I presume a counter revolution was soon effected .
to wearing double padded bobtail frock , thermometer in the shade ............................................. AUG . .
in their voracity the vermin frequently fastened their sharp fangs in my fingers .
that the final destruction of the earth must be brought about by the agency of fire , was urged with a spirit that enforced every where conviction ; and that the comets were of no fiery nature as all men now knew was a truth which relieved all , in a great measure , from the apprehension of the great calamity foretold .
the balloon is furnished besides with a grapnel , and a guide rope ; which latter is of the most indispensable importance .
from thence we proceeded to Oxford .
one day all extinct , save myself , should I walk the earth alone ?
it is observed , however , that the trait of exquisite cleanness where the bank dips into the water , still prevails .
there were arrangements also for the free admission of air and light , and convenient receptacles for food and water , within immediate reach of the coffin intended for my reception .
he was no longer her slave no longer her lover : he would never see her more , and by the completeness of his return , deserve the confidence of Perdita .
you shall have my consent and the plum , we mus &apos;n&apos;t forget the plum let me see when shall it be ?
only them from beyont kin make it multiply an &apos; work . . . .
a sensation with her became a sentiment , and she never spoke until she had mingled her perceptions of outward objects with others which were the native growth of her own mind .
the joyous soul , charioted from pleasure to pleasure by the graceful mechanism of well formed limbs , will suddenly feel the axle tree give way , and spring and wheel dissolve in dust .
no guile disguised the fervor of love which animated her heart , and she examined with me its inmost recesses as we walked together in the Valley of the Many Colored Grass , and discoursed of the mighty changes which had lately taken place therein .
I looked ; and in an open carriage which approached us , passing slowly down the street , sat the enchanting vision of the opera , accompanied by the younger lady who had occupied a portion of her box .
he died the next year a sad year indeed , since it marked the death of William Harris himself , enfeebled as he was by the climate of Martinique , where his occupation had kept him for considerable periods during the preceding decade .
his voice was stentorian : his hand stretched out in debate , seemed by its gigantic and muscular form , to warn his hearers that words were not his only weapons .
in fact , he had the good fortune to find her diamond ring .
the figure passed me quickly , and I lost it in the gloom .
here also we made some acquaintances , who almost contrived to cheat me into happiness .
what plain tale of science can boast of such a rhetorical effect ?
I mean get most of the evidence from beyond . &quot;
in that dim blend of blue and yellow the form of my uncle had commenced a nauseous liquefaction whose essence eludes all description , and in which there played across his vanishing face such changes of identity as only madness can conceive .
she had been a soldier &apos;s wife , and had seen the world ; infirmity , induced by fevers caught in unwholesome quarters , had come on her before its time , and she seldom moved from her little cot .
I concealed nothing nothing even of my weakness .
I would reconcile him to life , but he repulses the idea .
&quot; well , I don &apos;t know , &quot; said he , a little nettled , &quot; I draw tolerably should do it at least have had good masters , and flatter myself that I am not quite a blockhead . &quot;
it had , I say , in every respect , the appearance of its fellow in the other window ; but this fact was an absolute nullity conclusive us it might seem to be when compared with the consideration that here , at this point , terminated the clew .
we shall see these things , and other things which no breathing creature has yet seen .
but here also I am checked .
at length he spoke ; offering some objection to a point insisted upon by R. , and giving his reasons in detail .
my manner as I thus addressed him was impressive but calm ; I had formed in my own heart a resolution to pursue my destroyer to death , and this purpose quieted my agony and for an interval reconciled me to life .
she was aware of the purity of his motives , the generosity of his disposition , his true and ardent attachment to her ; and she entertained a great affection for him .
we gave him a hearty welcome ; for there was nearly half as much of the entertaining as of the contemptible about the man , and we had not seen him for several years .
I cannot linger here ; I long to soothe perhaps to cure the malady of my first and best friend .
not that he ever recognised me during his attacks , when I hung breathlessly upon his chaotic but cosmic word pictures ; but he knew me in his quiet hours , when he would sit by his barred window weaving baskets of straw and willow , and perhaps pining for the mountain freedom he could never enjoy again .
one man only had perished in the fire .
her faculties were palsied .
that he was not perfectly sober , he subsequently admitted ; though he had not then taken to the wholesale drinking by which he later tried to forget certain things .
his reserve had been always excessive and habitual .
but , since we grow hourly in knowledge , must not at last all things be known ?
some nameless accident had befallen this man .
&quot; they found a miserable asylum in the cottage in Germany , where I discovered them .
whether this prospect of future good be the preparation for another existence I know not ; or whether that it is merely that we , as workmen in God &apos;s vineyard , must lend a hand to smooth the way for our posterity .
in landscape alone is the principle of the critic true ; and , having felt its truth here , it is but the headlong spirit of generalization which has led him to pronounce it true throughout all the domains of art .
the inventor stated that the means by which the different medallions acted upon the machinery , so as to produce the proper answers to the questions which they contained , were extremely simple . &quot;
as soon as the governor had signed the bill , I invested my whole estate in the purchase of toms and Tabbies .
but the &quot; Goosetherumfoodle &quot; showed , if possible , less mercy than the &quot; Lollipop . &quot;
notwithstanding the blunders italicized , the book is not without some claim to attention , as affording a naive specimen of the current astronomical notions of the time .
a day of sun shine falling on a dark valley , displays its before hidden characteristics ; and now this smile , the same with which he first spoke love to Perdita , with which he had welcomed the protectorate , playing on his altered countenance , made me in my heart &apos;s core feel that this was Raymond .
he appeared to be destitute alike of the ambition which urged , and of the passionate energy of mind which enabled me to excel .
the natural leadership with which my uncle procured the instruments from the laboratories of Brown University and the Cranston Street Armoury , and instinctively assumed direction of our venture , was a marvellous commentary on the potential vitality and resilience of a man of eighty one .
it was very dingy and dusty , and only primitively furnished , but it had a neatness which shewed it was not a slum denizen &apos;s quarters .
something , however , closed his throat .
on the table lay a small white figure an infant boy , unclothed and unconscious while on the other side stood the monstrous , leering old woman with a gleaming , grotesque hafted knife in her right hand , and a queerly proportioned pale metal bowl covered with curiously chased designs and having delicate lateral handles in her left .
nothing of the fence kind was observable elsewhere ; for nowhere else was an artificial enclosure needed : any stray sheep , for example , which should attempt to make its way out of the vale by means of the ravine , would find its progress arrested , after a few yards &apos; advance , by the precipitous ledge of rock over which tumbled the cascade that had arrested my attention as I first drew near the domain .
suddenly Evadne quitted London for Paris ; he followed , and overtook her when the vessel was about to sail ; none knew what passed between them , but Perdita had never seen him since ; he lived in seclusion , no one knew where , attended by such persons as his mother selected for that purpose .
I had known that he was working on a new and highly unusual embalming compound , and was not surprised that it had turned out well ; but until he explained the details I was rather puzzled as to how such a compound could help in our work , since the objectionable staleness of the specimens was largely due to delay occurring before we secured them .
in the morning a simultaneous movement caused us each to advance .
how all this will terminate , I know not , but I had rather die than return shamefully , my purpose unfulfilled .
over the gables the roofs also projected very much : in the main building about four feet to the east and two to the west .
all her virtues and all her defects tended to make the blow incurable .
the want of money , however , was , for a few weeks , a source of some discomfort ; but at length , by carefully putting to use my two eyes , and observing how matters went just in front of my nose , I perceived how the thing was to be brought about .
Wednesday the next day he was back at the manuscript , and began to take copious notes both from the current sections and from those he had already deciphered .
and now , the sea , late our defence , seems our prison bound ; hemmed in by its gulphs , we shall die like the famished inhabitants of a besieged town .
&quot; when younger , &quot; said he , &quot; I believed myself destined for some great enterprise .
I will repay it by making you the father of a genius . &quot;
the screams were violent but brief .
one had been there , as marks clearly shewed , but there were signs of recent removal .
Adrian and Raymond now came into contact , and a spirit of aversion rose between them .
years added to the strictness of their union .
the blow was struck ; the aristocracy obtained all they wished , and they subscribed to a twelvemonths &apos; bill , which levied twenty per cent on all the rent rolls of the country .
the history of the house , opening amidst a maze of dates , revealed no trace of the sinister either about its construction or about the prosperous and honourable family who built it .
CHAPTER V. some disorder had surely crept into the course of the elements , destroying their benignant influence .
nevertheless , I could easily perceive that the balloon now hovered above the range of great lakes in the continent of North America , and was holding a course , due south , which would bring me to the tropics .
cursed the ground where dead thoughts live new and oddly bodied , and evil the mind that is held by no head .
let us examine the heads of this journal &apos;s argument ; endeavoring to avoid the incoherence with which it is originally set forth .
that I now saw aright I could not and would not doubt ; for the first flashing of the candles upon that canvas had seemed to dissipate the dreamy stupor which was stealing over my senses , and to startle me at once into waking life .
and the hair the wool Could I have reached that wool I would have bathed it with my tears , in testimony of regret .
&quot; Perdita , &quot; he continued , impatiently , &quot; I know what you would say ; I know that you love me , that you are good and gentle ; but this is no woman &apos;s work nor can a female heart guess at the hurricane which tears me &quot; He seemed half afraid of his own violence , and suddenly quitted the hall : a look from Perdita shewed me her distress , and I followed him .
having folded and sealed all , and stamped them with sham postmarks New Orleans , Bengal , Botany Bay , or any other place a great way off I set out , forthwith , upon my daily route , as if in a very great hurry .
accompanied by a friend , I had proceeded , upon a gunning expedition , some miles down the banks of the James River .
and there were whispers that the native shepherds and farmers were not ill disposed toward the very old folk that more than one thatched hut was vacant before midnight on the two hideous Sabbaths .
part of it came merely from knowing of the existence of such nameless monsters , while another part arose from apprehension of the bodily harm they might under certain circumstances do him .
nor did night refresh the earth .
at the same time , without being conscious of it , I must have deposited the parchment in my own pocket .
but we deemed the game worth the hazard , and embarked on it alone and unhesitatingly ; conscious that the seeking of outside aid would only expose us to ridicule and perhaps defeat our entire purpose .
time and experience have placed me on an height from which I can comprehend the past as a whole ; and in this way I must describe it , bringing forward the leading incidents , and disposing light and shade so as to form a picture in whose very darkness there will be harmony .
&quot; today learned the Aklo for the Sabaoth , &quot; it ran , &quot; which did not like , it being answerable from the hill and not from the air .
&quot; as a foulness shall ye know them , &quot; he quoted .
this determination on his part indeed surprised me .
he heard that his mother was ill , and he hastened to her .
my garments were wet and clung around me , and my hair hung in straight locks on my neck when not blown aside by the wind .
they are gone , and thou goest with them the oft trodden path that leads to oblivion , Farewell , sad Isle , farewell , thy fatal glory Is summed , cast up , and cancelled in this story .
&quot; that cannot be ; but all that I can say will be of little avail .
having assorted all with care , we found ourselves possessed of even vaster wealth than we had at first supposed .
the dampness was less foetid , and all the strange fungi had withered to a kind of harmless greyish powder which blew ash like along the floor .
Ryland had something the appearance of a farmer ; of a man whose muscles and full grown stature had been developed under the influence of vigorous exercise and exposure to the elements .
however , I was grateful for data which I knew would prove valuable ; and took copious notes and lists of book references regarding the well documented Orne family .
that it was not through want of a handkerchief for the purpose imagined by Le Commerciel , that this bandage was employed , is rendered apparent by the handkerchief left in the thicket ; and that the object was not &apos; to prevent screams &apos; appears , also , from the bandage having been employed in preference to what would so much better have answered the purpose .
during the day I was sustained and inspirited by the hope of night , for in sleep I saw my friends , my wife , and my beloved country ; again I saw the benevolent countenance of my father , heard the silver tones of my Elizabeth &apos;s voice , and beheld Clerval enjoying health and youth .
&quot; curse ye , dun &apos;t set thar a starin &apos; at me with them eyes I tell Obed Marsh he &apos;s in hell , an &apos; hez got to stay thar Heh , heh . . . in hell , I says Can &apos;t git me I hain &apos;t done nothin &apos; nor told nobody nothin &apos; &quot; Oh , you , young feller ?
there were several active servants in attendance ; and , upon a large table , at the farther end of the apartment , were seated seven or eight people with fiddles , fifes , trombones , and a drum .
after vigintillions of years great Cthulhu was loose again , and ravening for delight .
just what had really happened was maddeningly obscure , and for a moment both Gilman and Elwood exchanged whispered theories of the wildest kind .
that night Gilman saw the violet light again .
thinks it the voice of a Russian .
but even that man with Oriental eyes has done no more than suspect .
the Plague Daemon I shall never forget that hideous summer sixteen years ago , when like a noxious afrite from the halls of Eblis typhoid stalked leeringly through Arkham .
did the murderer place it there ?
&quot; compose yourself , &quot; said Clerval , who observed my change of colour , &quot; I will not mention it if it agitates you ; but your father and cousin would be very happy if they received a letter from you in your own handwriting .
toil without song is like a weary journey without an end .
after his abdication the late king had retreated from the sphere of politics , yet his domestic circle afforded him small content .
believe me , Frankenstein , I was benevolent ; my soul glowed with love and humanity ; but am I not alone , miserably alone ?
we have suffered its existence to escape our senses , solely through want of belief of faith ; whether it be faith in revelation , or faith in the Kabbala .
Nevil Jermyn died in the successful defence of his own two year old son , who had apparently been included in the old man &apos;s madly murderous scheme .
it helps me , too , in making up my mind regarding a certain terrible step which lies ahead of me .
from another which contained a good many old plays by some person whose name I forget , I extracted in the same manner , and with the same care , a great number of lines about &quot; angels &quot; and &quot; ministers saying grace , &quot; and &quot; goblins damned , &quot; and more besides of that sort .
and to make matters worse , there now flashed forth from the lofty cupola of the Gilman House , which loomed up to the northeast behind me , a series of analogous though differently spaced gleams which could be nothing less than an answering signal .
these latter narratives interested me profoundly , on account of what I had seen in my boyhood , but I felt that most of the significance had in each case been largely obscured by additions from the common stock of local ghost lore .
to reach the machinery which moves the arm , and which we have before explained to lie just beneath the shoulder , it would be necessary for the man within either to use his right arm in an exceedingly painful and awkward position , viz .
I knew that I was preparing for myself a deadly torture , but I was the slave , not the master , of an impulse which I detested yet could not disobey .
for many months I have submitted to this mock majesty this solemn jest .
and without saying more he rose and strode out of the building , stooping at each doorway .
there is no point , among the many incomprehensible anomalies of the science of mind , more thrillingly exciting than the fact never , I believe , noticed in the schools that , in our endeavors to recall to memory something long forgotten , we often find ourselves upon the very verge of remembrance , without being able , in the end , to remember .
but it was in vain ; I slept , indeed , but I was disturbed by the wildest dreams .
my great grandmother had been a Marsh of unknown source whose husband lived in Arkham and did not old Zadok say that the daughter of Obed Marsh by a monstrous mother was married to an Arkham man through a trick ?
in my shame and despair I sometimes scream frantically , begging the dream creatures around me to waken me ere the Inutos steal up the pass behind the peak Noton and take the citadel by surprise ; but these creatures are daemons , for they laugh at me and tell me I am not dreaming .
my friend , it is well that you spoke in time .
I never beheld any one so perfectly happy as my sweet sister .
now the human body , in general , is neither much lighter nor much heavier than the water of the Seine ; that is to say , the specific gravity of the human body , in its natural condition , is about equal to the bulk of fresh water which it displaces .
I had learned , too , the very remarkable fact , that the stem of the Usher race , all time honored as it was , had put forth , at no period , any enduring branch ; in other words , that the entire family lay in the direct line of descent , and had always , with very trifling and very temporary variation , so lain .
it does not appear that he ever wrote or spoke of it , nor is there any evidence that he even noticed it .
in this continuous record there seemed to me to brood a persistent evil beyond anything in Nature as I had known it ; an evil clearly connected with the house and not with the family .
instead of looking out across the bog toward the source of the new light , I kept my eyes from the window in panic fear , and clumsily drew on my clothing with some dazed idea of escape .
timid as they were , a few of the younger men were sufficiently inspired by our protective leadership to promise such help .
these gradations of matter increase in rarity or fineness , until we arrive at a matter unparticled without particles indivisible one and here the law of impulsion and permeation is modified .
there rose within him the tantalising faith that somewhere an easy gate existed , which if one found would admit him freely to those outer deeps whose echoes rattled so dimly at the back of his memory .
I reverence his goodness , I accord with his opinions , and bitterly lament his present , and I trust temporary , illness .
I have lost for ever the loveliest companion that any man could ever have possessed , one who rather appears to have been a superior spirit who by some strange accident wandered among us earthly creatures , than as belonging to our kind .
&quot; how often we made the circuit of the belt it is impossible to say .
the backgrounds were mostly old churchyards , deep woods , cliffs by the sea , brick tunnels , ancient panelled rooms , or simple vaults of masonry .
Mrs. Corey , unable to extract more information , began telephoning the neighbours ; thus starting on its rounds the overture of panic that heralded the major terrors .
the bay was crowded with vessels , whose crews , for the most part , were observing the uncouth sportings of this huge unwieldy machine they saw her gradually sink ; the waters now rising above her lower decks they could hardly wink before she had utterly disappeared , nor could the place where the sea had closed over her be at all discerned .
cognizant although innocent of the murder , the Frenchman will naturally hesitate about replying to the advertisement about demanding the Ourang Outang .
&quot; come , &quot; he said , abruptly , &quot; let us drink It is early but let us drink .
what tales the sea mists may bring to that haunted and northernmost pinnacle they do not know , but they long to extract some hint of the wonders that knock at the cliff yawning door when clouds are thickest .
a balloon from Kanadaw spoke us to day and threw on board several late papers ; they contain some exceedingly curious information relative to Kanawdian or rather Amriccan antiquities .
he whom a scratch has disorganized , he who disappears from apparent life under the influence of the hostile agency at work around us , had the same powers as I I also am subject to the same laws .
I repeat that in landscape arrangements alone is the physical nature susceptible of exaltation , and that , therefore , her susceptibility of improvement at this one point , was a mystery I had been unable to solve .
as for the jerk given to my neck upon the falling of the drop , it merely proved a corrective to the twist afforded me by the fat gentleman in the coach .
Mr. L l was so kind as to accede to my desire that he would take notes of all that occurred , and it is from his memoranda that what I now have to relate is , for the most part , either condensed or copied verbatim .
&quot; this is my post : I was born for this to rule England in anarchy , to save her in danger to devote myself for her .
but here , &quot; and he struck his heart with violence , &quot; here is the rebel , here the stumbling block ; this over ruling heart , which I may drain of its living blood ; but , while one fluttering pulsation remains , I am its slave . &quot;
I will keep no terms with my enemies .
I found her often poring over the article of Greek intelligence in the newspaper .
again the lightning flashed but this time upon a scene not wholly strange .
the brother had been led to his resolution so he told me by consideration of the unusual character of the malady of the deceased , of certain obtrusive and eager inquiries on the part of her medical men , and of the remote and exposed situation of the burial ground of the family .
woods and fields crowded up to the high bank of the river &apos;s mouth , and bore not a sign of man &apos;s presence ; not even a stone wall or a straying cow , but only the tall grass and giant trees and tangles of briers that the first Indian might have seen .
I will incur all the danger .
when the machine is thus moved about , it will be apparent to any careful observer , that whereas that portion of the machinery near the front door No . , is perfectly steady and unwavering , the portion farther within fluctuates , in a very slight degree , with the movements of the machine .
it &apos;s an old saying , and a true one , however , that money is nothing in comparison with health .
it was fully a week before the villagers noticed that no lights were appearing at dusk in the windows of the cottage under the trees .
I have no fear , not even from the prophecies of the madman Klenze .
he was a remarkable man a very remarkable man indeed one of the most remarkable men of the age .
it was the piping of unnumbered whippoorwills , and in their shrill chorus there seemed to lurk a note of tense and evil expectancy .
we had not the heart to undeceive the poor old man ; and at the moment I came in , he was reading parts of his book to Idris , asking what answer could be given to this or that position .
every thing seemed unique in one mass .
a variety of feelings urged Perdita to shed double magnificence over the scene ; yet , as she arrayed herself for the evening gala , she wondered herself at the pains she took , to render sumptuous the celebration of an event which appeared to her the beginning of her sufferings .
and through an opening in the roof glittered the pale Pole Star , fluttering as if alive , and leering like a fiend and tempter .
jest like when Elmer Frye &apos;s place was took , only wuss . . .
&quot; here every where &quot; one voice of horror and dismay exclaimed , when in the pleasant days of a sunny May the destroyer of man brooded again over the earth , forcing the spirit to leave its organic chrysalis , and to enter upon an untried life .
then he sensed a soft tread or tapping on the walk inside the gate , heard a gentle fumbling at the rusty latch , and saw the narrow , heavy door swing inward .
for over a hundred years the antique , grove circled stone house had been the subject of stories incredibly wild and monstrously hideous ; stories of a silent colossal creeping death which stalked abroad in summer .
Dr. Moneypenny will have it that our initials give our true character but for my life I can &apos;t see what he means .
the object was nauseous ; a filthy whitish gorilla thing with sharp yellow fangs and matted fur .
in the meantime I perseveringly frequented every reputable place of public amusement ; and , at length , at the theatre , where I first saw her , I had the supreme bliss of meeting her , and of exchanging glances with her once again .
there are some who would have thought him mad .
the weather was remarkably fine , and the view of the subjacent country a most romantic one when seen from any point , was now especially sublime .
all , save I , were at rest or in enjoyment ; I , like the arch fiend , bore a hell within me , and finding myself unsympathized with , wished to tear up the trees , spread havoc and destruction around me , and then to have sat down and enjoyed the ruin .
the bedstead , however , still held firm ; so that I had at least a faint chance of making good my escape .
later it grew cold and snowy ; and Barzai and Atal often slipped and fell as they hewed and plodded upward with staves and axes .
I am , it is well known , of a robust and corpulent appearance , and at the same time somewhat diminutive in stature .
everything that I can remember , I have told with perfect candour .
as I grew older my liberty encreased with my desires , and my wanderings extended from our park to the neighbouring country .
I gasped convulsively for breath a shudder resembling a fit of the ague agitated every nerve and muscle of my frame I felt my eyes starting from their sockets a horrible nausea overwhelmed me and at length I fainted away .
every inhabitant of the most miserable cottage , went to swell the stream of population that poured forth to meet him : even Perdita , in spite of my late philippic , crept near the highway , to behold this idol of all hearts .
Ma &apos;m&apos;selle Laplace Monsieur De Kock will do himself the honor of taking wine with you . &quot;
there are those who say I respond to cold as others do to a bad odour , and I am the last to deny the impression .
I thought that I had risen and went to seek my father to inform him of my determination to seperate myself from him .
Coleridge &apos;s &quot; ancient mariner . &quot;
the rays of the numerous candles for there were many now fell within a niche of the room which had hitherto been thrown into deep shade by one of the bed posts .
it was like heavy wood falling on stone or brick wood on brick what did that make me think of ?
what was there about them to confound me in this manner ?
will you pe take de odder pottle , or ave you pe got zober yet and come to your zenzes ? &quot;
the bookseller sold them to me for a song .
it hit the whole of Innsmouth , too , because in seafarin &apos; days what profited the master of a ship gen &apos;lly profited the crew proportionate .
heavens shall I ever forget the intense excitement of the moment ?
have you ever heard of any important treasure being unearthed along the coast ? &quot; &quot; never . &quot;
I will wander away from you , away from all life in the solitude I shall seek I alone shall breathe of human kind .
in their gray visions they obtain glimpses of eternity , and thrill , in awakening , to find that they have been upon the verge of the great secret .
on the night I arrived I heard strange music from the peaked garret overhead , and the next day asked old Blandot about it .
Atal was far below , and planning what he should do when he reached the place , when curiously he noticed that the light had grown strong , as if the cloudless peak and moonlit meeting place of the gods were very near .
there is not one token of the usual river debris .
I see but it is a thing difficult to tell .
Legrand had been awaiting us in eager expectation .
a cheerful fire blazed upon the hearth .
as I have told the police , there was no wagon in the street ; but only a group of strange looking figures bearing a large square box which they deposited in the hallway after one of them had grunted in a highly unnatural voice , &quot; Express prepaid . &quot;
a tingling long lost sense of pleasure often came across me during this journey .
and now , too , a voluminous cloud , which we had long watched in the regions of Hesper , floated out thence , all gorgeous in crimson and gold , and settling in peace above us , sank , day by day , lower and lower , until its edges rested upon the tops of the mountains , turning all their dimness into magnificence , and shutting us up , as if forever , within a magic prison house of grandeur and of glory .
its presentation afforded an opportunity for the lecture upon affectation with which I was so especially edified .
the arm , particularly , performs its operations in an exceedingly stiff , awkward , jerking , and rectangular manner .
after a discussion on this subject , which lasted for several hours , he took leave of his friends , and returned to town , unwilling to meet Perdita before us , conscious , as we all must be , of the thoughts uppermost in the minds of both .
his words are sweet , and so , truly , is the honey of the bee , but the bee has a sting , and unkindness is a worse smart that that received from an insect &apos;s venom .
while at school , emulation and his own natural abilities made him hold a conspicuous rank in the forms among his equals ; at college he discarded books ; he believed that he had other lessons to learn than those which they could teach him .
for an hour or more , we tried in vain to get rid of it , on account of the prodigious rolling of the ship ; and , before we had succeeded , the carpenter came aft and announced four feet of water in the hold .
a hundred similar instances go to show that the MS.
and now I want to assure you again , Eliot , that I &apos;m no mollycoddle to scream at anything which shews a bit of departure from the usual .
&quot; you must get over these fancies , &quot; said the guide , &quot; for I have brought you here that you might have the best possible view of the scene of that event I mentioned and to tell you the whole story with the spot just under your eye . &quot;
in the mean time I worked on , and my labour was already considerably advanced .
witness had seen the daughter some five or six times during the six years .
no one would deal with them , and their distant manor was shunned as an accursed place .
and when the church bells rang he would stop his ears and scream , and the grey cat that dwelt with him would howl in unison till the last peal died reverberantly away .
from the load itself came the earthly smell .
then , as he turned away , he saw on the table a sight which nearly snapped the last thread of his reason .
he analyzed my composition with much freedom and great ability not hesitating to point out a few trivial defects a circumstance which elevated him highly in my esteem .
you allow me to throw away this cursed drink ; you smile ; oh , Congratulate me , hope is triumphant , and I have done some good . &quot;
the mother , it appeared , had feared the event for some time ; but the reasons she assigned for her fear were so grotesque that no one took them seriously .
we were still at Windsor ; our renewed hopes medicined the anguish we had suffered from the late tragedies .
the mind struggles to establish a connexion a sequence of cause and effect and , being unable to do so , suffers a species of temporary paralysis .
each finger has retained possibly until the death of the victim the fearful grasp by which it originally imbedded itself .
were the machine a pure machine this would not be the case it would always win .
these were my thoughts ; and with trembling hands I prepared to begin a letter to my unhappy parent .
the voice of affection was so new to me that I hung with delight upon his words when he told me what he had felt concerning me during these long years of apparent forgetfulness .
from you only could I hope for succour , although towards you I felt no sentiment but that of hatred .
soon after my arrival my father spoke of my immediate marriage with Elizabeth .
the next morning he was discovered dead in his bed , and the coroner &apos;s verdict was &quot; Death by the visitation of God . &quot; having inherited his estate , all went well with me for years .
merciful Creator Eliot , but I don &apos;t know how much was real and how much was feverish fancy .
the coyote , the dog , the storm , all were audible ; the last named now gaining ascendancy as the wind shrieked more and more frantically .
the uncertain bridge now before me was posted with a warning sign , but I took the risk and crossed again to the south bank where traces of life reappeared .
when I look back , it seems to me as if this almost miraculous change of inclination and will was the immediate suggestion of the guardian angel of my life the last effort made by the spirit of preservation to avert the storm that was even then hanging in the stars and ready to envelop me .
the walk was a trifle long , but we could haul our silent specimens undisturbed .
he was a man of few words .
Morella &apos;s name died with her at her death .
the very few glasses of Lafitte that I had sipped had the effect of rendering me drowsy , and I felt inclined to take a nap of some fifteen or twenty minutes , as is my custom after dinner .
there was no one in waking hours who could remind me of it ; but my dreams are filled with terror , because of phrases I dare not quote .
I perfectly well know that you are innocent of the atrocities in the Rue Morgue .
as the blood spurted from this wound Gilman lapsed into a faint .
we carried spades and oil dark lanterns , for although electric torches were then manufactured , they were not as satisfactory as the tungsten contrivances of today .
it was very different when the masters of the science sought immortality and power ; such views , although futile , were grand ; but now the scene was changed .
I studied the wisdom of the Ancients , and gazed on the happy walls that sheltered the beloved of my soul .
in years a child of ten , I had seen and heard many wonders unknown to the throng ; and was oddly aged in certain respects .
I had expected , of course , to see them betray a sense of pain , although in a less degree than their mother , and this would have been sufficient to confirm my opinion concerning the habitual endurance of atmospheric pressure .
only the notebooks of my antiquarian uncle , Dr. Elihu Whipple , revealed to me at length the darker , vaguer surmises which formed an undercurrent of folklore among old time servants and humble folk ; surmises which never travelled far , and which were largely forgotten when Providence grew to be a metropolis with a shifting modern population .
he told me that he and his companions had been chosen by the other sailors to come in deputation to me to make me a requisition which , in justice , I could not refuse .
the white ruins on the islet he had often visited , but though their age was plainly great , and their contour very little like that of most ruins in Ireland , they were too dilapidated to tell the days of their glory .
fiendish things were in the air , and lodgers told over the beads of their rosaries as they caught the odour from beneath the doctor &apos;s closed door .
Ryland had deserted his post through fear of the plague : from the same fear Adrian had no competitor .
aye I would claim my heritage of death , even though my soul go seeking through the ages for another corporeal tenement to represent it on that vacant slab in the alcove of the vault .
&quot; pass your hand , &quot; I said , &quot; over the wall ; you cannot help feeling the nitre .
Ann &apos;s tongue was perniciously active , and within a few months Mercy discharged her , filling her place with a faithful and amiable Amazon from Newport , Maria Robbins .
a servant in waiting took my horse , and I entered the Gothic archway of the hall .
may is returned , and I die .
around the walls of this repellent chamber were cases of antique mummies alternating with comely , life like bodies perfectly stuffed and cured by the taxidermist &apos;s art , and with headstones snatched from the oldest churchyards of the world .
I had determined at one time that the memory of these evils should die with me , but you have won me to alter my determination .
the tense extremes of horror are lessening , and I feel queerly drawn toward the unknown sea deeps instead of fearing them .
I trembled excessively ; I could not endure to think of , and far less to allude to , the occurrences of the preceding night .
it was at once a duty and an advantage to afford them the protection due to Roman citizens ; even and here I shot a sarcastic look at Balbutius and Asellius at the expense of a little trouble and activity , and of a slight interruption of the draught playing and cock fighting at the camp in Calagurris .
it is related , however , that the first circumstance which disturbed , very particularly , the self complacency of the philosophers who constructed this &quot; Republic , &quot; was the startling discovery that universal suffrage gave opportunity for fraudulent schemes , by means of which any desired number of votes might at any time be polled , without the possibility of prevention or even detection , by any party which should be merely villainous enough not to be ashamed of the fraud .
with this mode of relief I even wrote a few poems , and still refrained from going home to my people lest I seem to crawl back ignobly in defeat .
&quot; I have no doubt of it , &quot; I said .
in examining the boundary between light and darkness in the crescent or gibbous moon where this boundary crosses any of the dark places , the line of division is found to be rough and jagged ; but , were these dark places liquid , it would evidently be even .
I am full of fears , for if I fail there , I am an outcast in the world forever . &apos; &quot; &apos; do not despair .
he knew that Joe must have been half drunk when he came home the night before , yet this mention of a violet light in the garret window was of frightful import .
the shaft of light permitted me to learn many details , but refused to shew anything within the gaping door of the rock hewn temple ; and after a time I turned off the current , conscious of the need of conserving power .
as the tree muffled thunder grew louder , I arranged my plan &apos;s details .
that word , as yet it was not more to her , was plague .
the abbey was amply provisioned .
I would say ; Woodville , rejoice with your friend , I triumph now and am most happy .
sleep , the sovereign balm , at length steeped her tearful eyes in forgetfulness .
the head of the radiant god in the sculptures on the rock temple is the same as that carven bit of ivory which the dead sailor brought from the sea and which poor Klenze carried back into the sea .
the stars were right again , and what an age old cult had failed to do by design , a band of innocent sailors had done by accident .
I will candidly confess that my feelings were now of the most singular nay , of the most mysterious , the most perplexing and incomprehensible character .
&quot; and if I died , at least I died For thee for thee . &quot;
the land undulated very remarkably ; and my path , for the last hour , had wound about and about so confusedly , in its effort to keep in the valleys , that I no longer knew in what direction lay the sweet village of B , where I had determined to stop for the night .
northward the view was much the same as it had been all the four days since we had sighted the bottom , but I perceived that the drifting of the U was less rapid .
among the numerous train of maladies superinduced by that fatal and primary one which effected a revolution of so horrible a kind in the moral and physical being of my cousin , may be mentioned as the most distressing and obstinate in its nature , a species of epilepsy not unfrequently terminating in trance itself trance very nearly resembling positive dissolution , and from which her manner of recovery was in most instances , startlingly abrupt .
one only of the crew appeared to have arrived with her .
sometimes I could cope with the sullen despair that overwhelmed me , but sometimes the whirlwind passions of my soul drove me to seek , by bodily exercise and by change of place , some relief from my intolerable sensations .
but this is false reasoning .
so to the sound of melody the White Ship sailed into the mist betwixt the basalt pillars of the West .
behind , the cottage was shadowed by the venerable fathers of the forest , under which the deer came to graze , and which for the most part hollow and decayed , formed fantastic groups that contrasted with the regular beauty of the younger trees .
o death and change , rulers of our life , where are ye , that I may grapple with you What was there in our tranquillity , that excited your envy in our happiness , that ye should destroy it ?
neck dislocated , and right leg capitally splintered .
wonder if he O &apos;s as much there as he does here ?
the learned now gave their intellect their soul to no such points as the allaying of fear , or to the sustenance of loved theory .
when this distension has so far progressed that the bulk of the corpse is materially increased without a corresponding increase of mass or weight , its specific gravity becomes less than that of the water displaced , and it forthwith makes its appearance at the surface .
I was beside Adrian ; a moment before he had again given the word to halt , and had remained a few yards distant from us in deep meditation : he was forming swiftly his plan of action , to prevent the effusion of blood ; the noise of cannon , the sudden rush of the troops , and yell of the foe , startled him : with flashing eyes he exclaimed , &quot; Not one of these must perish &quot; and plunging the rowels into his horse &apos;s sides , he dashed between the conflicting bands .
the Portuguese sailors coming in from a voyage cross themselves when they first see it , and the old Yankees believe it would be much graver matter than death to climb it , if indeed that were possible .
the very sun of heaven seemed distorted when viewed through the polarising miasma welling out from this sea soaked perversion , and twisted menace and suspense lurked leeringly in those crazily elusive angles of carven rock where a second glance shewed concavity after the first shewed convexity .
however , I soon saw that my uneasiness had a second and perhaps equally potent source residing in the pictorial and mathematical suggestions of the strange designs .
this alley led steeply uphill more steeply than I thought possible in this part of New York and the upper end was blocked squarely by the ivy clad wall of a private estate , beyond which I could see a pale cupola , and the tops of trees waving against a vague lightness in the sky .
sometimes we went up to London , and entered into the amusements of the busy throng ; sometimes our retreat was invaded by visitors from among them .
they always do that about Innsmouth people , and folks here and hereabouts always try to cover up any Innsmouth blood they have in &apos; em .
I discovered more distinctly the black sides of Jura , and the bright summit of Mont Blanc .
I must never more behold you ; never more hear your voice ; but the soft whisperings of your forgiveness will reach me and cool the burning of my disordered brain and heart ; I am sure I should feel it even in my grave .
the weight of the whole machine and apparatus was seventeen pounds leaving about four pounds to spare .
she deposited her appalling doubts in my hands ; she relied on my judgment , and was comforted by my participation in her sorrow .
when corn was thrown down before it , the duck stretched out its neck to pick it up , swallowed , and digested it .
the agony of that moment is not to be imagined .
I did not forget the mixed blood and marine pursuits of the cult members in Louisiana , and would not be surprised to learn of secret methods and poison needles as ruthless and as anciently known as the cryptic rites and beliefs .
the boy to whom I allude won all the marbles of the school .
the Duke of , and Mr. Ryland , Lord Raymond &apos;s old antagonist , were the other candidates .
one of the best of these I entered , but I had hardly placed my foot within the door before the children shrieked , and one of the women fainted .
its walls were loosely constructed , and had lately been plastered throughout with a rough plaster , which the dampness of the atmosphere had prevented from hardening .
all at once my feverishly sensitive ears seemed to detect a new and wholly distinct component in the soft medley of drug magnified sounds a low and damnably insistent whine from very far away ; droning , clamouring , mocking , calling , from the northeast .
they consulted their village priest , and the result was that Elizabeth Lavenza became the inmate of my parents &apos; house my more than sister the beautiful and adored companion of all my occupations and my pleasures .
my father and I were now seldom alone or if we were he generally kept silence with his eyes fixed on the ground the dark full orbs in which before I delighted to read all sweet and gentle feeling shadowed from my sight by their lids and the long lashes that fringed them .
this dear one , my sole relation ; whose progress I had marked from tender childhood through the varied path of life , and seen her throughout conspicuous for integrity , devotion , and true affection ; for all that constitutes the peculiar graces of the female character , and beheld her at last the victim of too much loving , too constant an attachment to the perishable and lost , she , in her pride of beauty and life , had thrown aside the pleasant perception of the apparent world for the unreality of the grave , and had left poor Clara quite an orphan .
I tried to calm Ernest ; I enquired more minutely concerning my father , and here I named my cousin .
the company consisted of seven or eight individuals besides the Baron and myself .
there were in all , then , a hundred paces ; and , admitting two paces to the yard , I presumed the dungeon to be fifty yards in circuit .
we know that the resistance of bodies is , chiefly , in proportion to their density .
but my adventures yet remain to be related .
the tension of my vigil became oppressive , and a wild train of trivial impressions and associations thronged through my almost unhinged mind .
above all , it was usually found , upon the annual winter opening of the barriers , that locks , bolts , and secret cellars , had proved but slender protection to those rich stores of wines and liquors which , in consideration of the risk and trouble of removal , many of the numerous dealers having shops in the neighbourhood had consented to trust , during the period of exile , to so insufficient a security .
but the aeronaut , still greatly discomposed , and having apparently no farther business to detain him in Rotterdam , began at this moment to make busy preparations for departure ; and it being necessary to discharge a portion of ballast to enable him to reascend , the half dozen bags which he threw out , one after another , without taking the trouble to empty their contents , tumbled , every one of them , most unfortunately upon the back of the burgomaster , and rolled him over and over no less than one and twenty times , in the face of every man in Rotterdam .
we feel , conceive , or reason ; laugh or weep , embrace fond woe , or cast our cares away ; It is the same : for , be it joy or sorrow , The path of its departure still is free .
for my part , as soon as I had let the foresail run , I threw myself flat on deck , with my feet against the narrow gunwale of the bow , and with my hands grasping a ring bolt near the foot of the fore mast .
this circumstance once spread abroad , none dared approach within half a mile of the infected neighbourhood , and the deserted wretch was left to fight with disease and death in solitude , as he best might .
he was mistaken undoubtedly mistaken .
at such a time sorrow has no voice ; affliction , tamed by it is very vehemence , is mute .
and that the rumors have existed so long and so continuous , could have resulted , it appeared to me , only from the circumstance of the buried treasure still remaining entombed .
what more than fiend convulsed the features of my child , and overspread them with hues of death , as starting at that scarcely audible sound , she turned her glassy eyes from the earth to heaven , and falling prostrate on the black slabs of our ancestral vault , responded &quot; I am here &quot; distinct , coldly , calmly distinct , fell those few simple sounds within my ear , and thence like molten lead rolled hissingly into my brain .
while the component parts may exceed , individually , the highest skill of the artist , the arrangement of the parts will always be susceptible of improvement .
how can I describe my sensations on beholding it ?
it will not do to trust him too far .
I felt the greatest ardour for virtue rise within me , and abhorrence for vice , as far as I understood the signification of those terms , relative as they were , as I applied them , to pleasure and pain alone .
this was indeed a godlike science , and I ardently desired to become acquainted with it .
I made , also , three important observations .
shall I with an aching heart seek the spectacle of misery to discover its cause or shall I hopless leave the search of knowledge devote myself to the pleasures they say this world affords ?
out of the unimaginable blackness beyond the gangrenous glare of that cold flame , out of the Tartarean leagues through which that oily river rolled uncanny , unheard , and unsuspected , there flopped rhythmically a horde of tame , trained , hybrid winged things that no sound eye could ever wholly grasp , or sound brain ever wholly remember .
what I have now to tell is of my own actual knowledge of my own positive and personal experience .
the deputy appointed by parliament is dead ; another therefore must be named ; I have advanced my claim , and I believe that I shall have no competitor .
his head had dropped upon his breast yet I knew that he was not asleep , from the wide and rigid opening of the eye as I caught a glance of it in profile .
she had none of the spirit of a martyr , and did not incline to share the shame and defeat of a fallen patriot .
the spirit of Idris hovered in the air I breathed ; her eyes were ever and for ever bent on mine ; her remembered smile blinded my faint gaze , and caused me to walk as one , not in eclipse , not in darkness and vacancy but in a new and brilliant light , too novel , too dazzling for my human senses .
out out are the lights out all And over each quivering form , The curtain , a funeral pall , comes down with the rush of a storm , And the angels , all pallid and wan , uprising , unveiling , affirm That the play is the tragedy , &quot; Man , &quot; And its hero the conqueror worm .
opiate oceans poured there , litten by suns that the eye may never behold and having in their whirlpools strange dolphins and sea nymphs of unrememberable deeps .
I , myself , still held some curious notions about the traditional &quot; soul &quot; of man , and felt an awe at the secrets that might be told by one returning from the dead .
on this peninsula stood a dwelling house and when I say that this house , like the infernal terrace seen by Vathek , &quot; etait d &apos;une architecture inconnue dans les annales de la terre , &quot; I mean , merely , that its tout ensemble struck me with the keenest sense of combined novelty and propriety in a word , of poetry for , than in the words just employed , I could scarcely give , of poetry in the abstract , a more rigorous definition and I do not mean that merely outre was perceptible in any respect .
when the eyes of Prince Prospero fell upon this spectral image which with a slow and solemn movement , as if more fully to sustain its role , stalked to and fro among the waltzers he was seen to be convulsed , in the first moment with a strong shudder either of terror or distaste ; but , in the next , his brow reddened with rage .
and as the last pathetic straggler , the fat cook , sank heavily out of sight in that sullen pool , the flutes and the drums grew silent , and the blinding red rays from the ruins snapped instantaneously out , leaving the village of doom lone and desolate in the wan beams of a new risen moon .
I had evoked and the book was indeed all I had suspected .
my muscles tightened for panic flight , held in only by a certain unconscious caution and half hypnotic fascination .
briefly and brutally stated , West &apos;s sole absorbing interest was a secret study of the phenomena of life and its cessation , leading toward the reanimation of the dead through injections of an excitant solution .
it appeared to be a handsome young man , about five and twenty years of age .
Eureka Pundit is in his glory .
he saw my change of feeling and continued , &quot; If you consent , neither you nor any other human being shall ever see us again ; I will go to the vast wilds of South America .
I could not do less than offer him the service of my own ; and he accepted the civility .
in the meantime , I stepped to the card rack , took the letter , put it in my pocket , and replaced it by a fac simile , so far as regards externals , which I had carefully prepared at my lodgings imitating the D cipher , very readily , by means of a seal formed of bread .
with much difficulty , and at the imminent peril of their lives , they were restraining the convulsive plunges of a gigantic and fiery colored horse .
&quot; nay , Madam , &quot; said Adrian , &quot; unless my sister consent never to see him again , it is surely an useless torment to separate them for a month . &quot;
we there found them all unmolested , and I proceeded immediately to business .
the sight of beauty entranced me , and attractive manners in man or woman won my entire confidence .
it was perhaps an hour later , while I still waited and while the old musician &apos;s feverishly written sheets still continued to pile up , that I saw Zann start as from the hint of a horrible shock .
and the golden and silver fish swam down through the gorge at the lower end of our domain and bedecked the sweet river never again .
a man cannot have the patience a mother has , with her own flesh and blood . &quot;
slowly and silently we went to meet Adrian , whom we heard approaching .
I picked the ribbon up at the foot of the lightning rod .
I had never seen the sister of Adrian .
then he saw the two shapes laboriously crawling toward him the old woman and the little furry thing .
to the sound of reedy pipes that echoed over the bog there glided silently and eerily a mixed throng of swaying figures , reeling through such a revel as the Sicilians may have danced to Demeter in the old days under the harvest moon beside the Cyane .
it was also to be observed , that although the three grooms , who had caught the steed as he fled from the conflagration at Berlifitzing , had succeeded in arresting his course , by means of a chain bridle and noose yet no one of the three could with any certainty affirm that he had , during that dangerous struggle , or at any period thereafter , actually placed his hand upon the body of the beast .
the wounds for both ankles were frightfully lacerated about the Achilles &apos; tendons seemed to puzzle the old physician greatly , and finally almost to frighten him .
it is well for men that they know not of Kadath in the cold waste , else they would seek injudiciously to scale it .
however , he had not been wholly unaffected by the Restoration influence ; and having become addicted to gaming , lost the skull to one Epenetus Dexter , a visiting freeman of Providence .
this gentleman , whom I shall call Hermann , was an original in every respect except , perhaps , in the single particular that he was a very great fool .
it was in the soft glow of late afternoon that I first entered the vault on the abandoned slope .
a spell was upon me , and my heart leaped with an exultation I can but ill describe .
it is modelled by the data .
I feared to tread , lest I should be precipitated into some abyss .
so I opened it you cannot imagine how stealthily , stealthily until , at length a simple dim ray , like the thread of the spider , shot from out the crevice and fell full upon the vulture eye .
at no time was he a very scrupulous man of his word .
he had canvassed eagerly for this post .
my watch informed me that it was half past seven ; and , of course , having slept two hours , I was too late for my appointment .
I did not appear before my parents till after a long and refreshing sleep .
the first cold weather of an English October , made us hasten our preparations .
then they stopped hoping when the horror occurred at the parsonage , leaving not a soul alive or in one piece .
can I shall I describe my sensations ?
take the sum in its completeness , and no arithmetic can calculate its price ; take from it the smallest portion , give it but the name of parts , separate it into degrees and sections , and like the magician &apos;s coin , the valueless gold of the mine , is turned to vilest substance .
this quieted the crew for the time , and we submerged unseen .
the brief interval had been sufficient to enfeeble my remembrance of the events at Dr. Bransby &apos;s , or at least to effect a material change in the nature of the feelings with which I remembered them .
it was against the full moon one night in the immemorial year of Tharp that I saw outlined the beckoning form of the celestial bird , and felt the first stirrings of unrest .
but do not deceive yourself ; this cottage is built by my order ; and here I shall remain , until the hour arrives when I may share his happier dwelling . &quot;
I know I told him that myself then .
her perpetual study was to relieve us from labour and to spread ease and even elegance over our altered mode of life .
should I at any time wish to express my opinion of Mr. fry , the pages of the &quot; Lollipop , &quot; Mr. Crab assured me , were at my unlimited disposal .
Kircher and others imagine that in the centre of the channel of the Maelström is an abyss penetrating the globe , and issuing in some very remote part the Gulf of Bothnia being somewhat decidedly named in one instance .
I look on her as the creature who will form the happiness of my future life : she is all that exists on earth that interests me .
it appears to me that this mystery is considered insoluble , for the very reason which should cause it to be regarded as easy of solution I mean for the outré character of its features .
but the popularity of Sheehan &apos;s remains unimpaired ; and for this there is a reason a reason obvious to anyone who will take the trouble to analyse the mixed stenches prevailing there .
the aristocrats built their hopes on their preponderant wealth and influence ; the reformers on the force of the nation itself ; the debates were violent , more violent the discourses held by each knot of politicians as they assembled to arrange their measures .
and then , lastly , the voluminous cloud uprose , and , abandoning the tops of the mountains to the dimness of old , fell back into the regions of Hesper , and took away all its manifold golden and gorgeous glories from the Valley of the Many Colored Grass .
old Zadok probably saw me shrink back , for he had begun to cackle evilly .
now , let us suppose that when the machine is first rolled into the presence of the spectators , a man is already within it .
touching circumstances which cannot fail to bring to the recollection of the classical reader that exquisite passage in relation to the fitness of things , which is to be found in the commencement of the third volume of that admirable and venerable Chinese novel the Jo Go slow .
thought long upon the subject , but was unable to form any satisfactory conclusion .
when I recovered I found myself surrounded by the people of the inn ; their countenances expressed a breathless terror , but the horror of others appeared only as a mockery , a shadow of the feelings that oppressed me .
amidst a wild and reckless throng I was the wildest and most abandoned .
and the curse which I invoked of Him and of her , a saint in Helusion should I prove traitorous to that promise , involved a penalty the exceeding great horror of which will not permit me to make record of it here .
I heard it , and knew no more .
for there are strange objects in the great abyss , and the seeker of dreams must take care not to stir up or meet the wrong ones .
he recalled past years to their memory ; the miserable contentions which in the time of our fathers arose almost to civil war , the abdication of the late king , and the foundation of the republic .
once again I breathed as a freeman .
during a walk through a narrow lane near the Gothenburg dock , a bundle of papers falling from an attic window had knocked him down .
in the evening Adrian visited us .
&quot; it is clear , &quot; said I , &quot; as you observe , that the letter is still in possession of the minister ; since it is this possession , and not any employment of the letter , which bestows the power .
in the fourth niche the statue was veiled ; it was not colossal .
&quot; in about four hours and a half I found the balloon sufficiently inflated .
&quot; your father left it , madam , with his servant , to be given to you when you should rise . &quot;
here I took out my knife .
he , with a noble goodness all his own , took infinite delight in bestowing to prodigality the treasures of his mind and fortune on the long neglected son of his father &apos;s friend , the offspring of that gifted being whose excellencies and talents he had heard commemorated from infancy .
the ex queen , a princess of the house of Austria , had long impelled her husband to withstand the necessity of the times .
he made his voice as reassuring as possible .
a casual or inadvertent word ; the accidental dropping or turning of a card , with the accompanying anxiety or carelessness in regard to its concealment ; the counting of the tricks , with the order of their arrangement ; embarrassment , hesitation , eagerness or trepidation all afford , to his apparently intuitive perception , indications of the true state of affairs .
after what seemed the lapse of a century it came .
and , mark me , Miss Psyche Zenobia &quot; he continued , after a pause , with the most expressive energy and solemnity of manner , &quot; mark me that pen must never be mended herein , madam , lies the secret , the soul , of intensity .
evil thenceforth became my good .
he fell forward , and , with his accursed head , striking me full in the in the breast , precipitated me headlong , together with himself , upon the hard , filthy , and detestable floor of the belfry .
it needed not this last account to spur me on to visit him .
I immediately kindled a fire , and subjected every portion of the parchment to a glowing heat .
&quot; and what , Robert , &quot; he inquired , &quot; is Nosology ? &quot;
the open space was , as I had expected , strongly moonlit ; and I saw the remains of a park like , iron railed green in its centre .
Adrian had been occupied in fulfilling a laborious and painful task .
to be sure there were , in Syria and other countries , sixteen cities of that appellation , besides the one to which I more particularly allude .
I resolutely and perseveringly kept my attention riveted upon the body .
but a new and still more astounding source of interest and perplexity arose .
in Ulthar , before ever the burgesses forbade the killing of cats , there dwelt an old cotter and his wife who delighted to trap and slay the cats of their neighbours .
throughout I found it logical , but the portions which were not merely logical were unhappily the initial arguments of the disbelieving hero of the book .
they were telling each other how badly they dreaded the coming of Walpurgis Night , now only a few days off ; and were exchanging pitying comments about the poor , doomed young gentleman .
we thus see the numerous and great obstacles in the way of pieces being &apos; torn off &apos; through the simple agency of &apos; thorns ; &apos; yet we are required to believe not only that one piece but that many have been so torn .
then he clumb aout the kitchen winder with his musket to find Selectman Mowry an &apos; see what he cud do . . . .
she wept with me and for me .
my father and the rest of the family being obliged to attend as witnesses , I accompanied them to the court .
I speak of West &apos;s decadence , but must add that it was a purely mental and intangible thing .
these things were not certain , yet they were often told ; and in truth the stonework of Northam Keep did look alarmingly like the masonry of Hadrian &apos;s wall .
at first they wore the aspect of charity , and seemed white and slender angels who would save me ; but then , all at once , there came a most deadly nausea over my spirit , and I felt every fibre in my frame thrill as if I had touched the wire of a galvanic battery , while the angel forms became meaningless spectres , with heads of flame , and I saw that from them there would be no help .
Gilman did not report his fever to the doctor , for he knew he could not pass the examinations if ordered to the college infirmary when every moment was needed for cramming .
the especially bizarre thing was that the artist had made his Africans look like white men the limbs and quarters hanging about the walls of the shop were ghastly , while the butcher with his axe was hideously incongruous .
man thus divested would be God would be unindividualized .
in personal grace and beauty he exceeded all men .
I shivered , yet my pulse was high with fever .
but what mainly inspired us with horror and astonishment , was that she bore up under a press of sail in the very teeth of that supernatural sea , and of that ungovernable hurricane .
at last I recovered speech , but my voice terrified her ; the hapless girl had understood my look , and for worlds she would not that the tale of her heavy misery should have been shaped out and confirmed by hard , irrevocable words .
he knew his room was in the old Witch House that , indeed , was why he had taken it .
a feeling , for which I have no name , has taken possession of my soul a sensation which will admit of no analysis , to which the lessons of bygone times are inadequate , and for which I fear futurity itself will offer me no key .
it was Ellison who suggested that they were prognostic of death .
Woodville was a t he was sought for by every society and all eyes were turned on him alone when he appeared ; but he was the son of a poor clergyman and Elinor was a rich heiress .
actually , it was caused by the unwise cutting of woodlands near the shore , which robbed the soil of its best protection and opened the way for waves of wind blown sand .
this faith gives a solemnity to his reveries that render them to me almost as imposing and interesting as truth .
thinking of the things this well must have been connected with if Pickman &apos;s wild hints had not been mere rhetoric , I shivered slightly ; then turned to follow him up a step and through a narrow door into a room of fair size , provided with a wooden floor and furnished as a studio .
as I drew near the age of thirty , old Pierre was called to the land beyond .
at the end of a week the &quot; Goosetherumfoodle &quot; discovered that it had , by some odd mistake , &quot; confounded a stupid article , headed &apos; Hey Diddle Diddle &apos; and composed by some unknown ignoramus , with a gem of resplendent lustre similarly entitled , the work of Thingum Bob , Esq . , the celebrated author of &apos; The Oil of Bob . &apos; &quot;
I burned to say if but one word , by way of triumph , and to render doubly sure their assurance of my guiltlessness .
Mr. L. speaks about Sir John Herschel &apos;s perceiving flowers the Papaver rheas , etc . , and even detecting the color and the shape of the eyes of small birds .
this is better than fashion is it not ?
but , though it seemed absurd to calculate upon the arrival of the plague in London , I could not reflect without extreme pain on the desolation this evil would cause in Greece .
the dress of this person was that of a soldier , but the bared neck and arms , and the continued shrieks discovered a female thus disguised .
I conceived that I was different and superior to my protectors and companions , but I knew not how or wherefore .
I mean to write at you every day during this odious voyage .
hope , she said , was better than a doctor &apos;s prescription , and every thing that could sustain and enliven the spirits , of more worth than drugs and mixtures .
but gradually my songs they ceased , and their echoes , rolling afar off among the sable draperies of the chamber , became weak , and undistinguishable , and so faded away .
she had no temptation for such an action ; as to the bauble on which the chief proof rests , if she had earnestly desired it , I should have willingly given it to her , so much do I esteem and value her . &quot;
but there never was entertained a more erroneous idea than that it requires no brains to mud dabble .
as the night wore on , a violent storm of wind broke over the crest of Maenalus , and the men from far Syracuse were glad that they rested snugly in the town .
the plague was in London fools that we were not long ago to have foreseen this .
of who or what that ancient creature was , I have no idea ; but I repeat that the city is dead and full of unsuspected horrors .
it was not the Castilian conquistador or the American pioneer , but the ancient and noble Aztec , whom imagination called to view when the silent peon would rise in the early morning and gaze in fascination at the sun as it crept above the eastern hills , meanwhile stretching out his arms to the orb as if in the performance of some rite whose nature he did not himself comprehend .
motioning me to sit down , the dumb man closed the door , turned the large wooden bolt , and lighted a candle to augment the one he had brought with him .
once , after the poor animals that conveyed me had with incredible toil gained the summit of a sloping ice mountain , and one , sinking under his fatigue , died , I viewed the expanse before me with anguish , when suddenly my eye caught a dark speck upon the dusky plain .
I whispered what I had experienced , and he bade me to remain as quiet and receptive as possible .
all there was at peace .
&quot; it would be a matter of utter impossibility , &quot; replied Legs , whom the assumptions and dignity of King Pest the First had evidently inspired some feelings of respect , and who arose and steadied himself by the table as he spoke &quot; It would , please your majesty , be a matter of utter impossibility to stow away in my hold even one fourth part of the same liquor which your majesty has just mentioned .
a locked portfolio , bound in tanned human skin , held certain unknown and unnamable drawings which it was rumoured Goya had perpetrated but dared not acknowledge .
we were sufficiently disappointed Yet we examined it with care , as if its blank , rocky walls could still bear trace of celestial visitant .
half I accomplished ; I gained his secret and we were both lost for ever .
the neighbours could tell me little , till I lighted on a poor woman who acted as nurse in these perilous times .
her motions at length attracted the attention of her unknown companion ; her hand was seized with a convulsive violence that made the grasp feel like iron , the fingers like the keen teeth of a trap .
for all the rest of my life , in outward form , I was to be that man I was far from home , and the spell of the eastern sea was upon me .
this shew of terror encreased ours , we gasped with him , each neck was stretched out , each face changed with the actor &apos;s changes at length while Macduff , who , attending to his part , was unobservant of the high wrought sympathy of the house , cried with well acted passion : all my pretty ones ?
to be sure it has a circulation of precisely half a million , and its subscription list has increased seventy five per cent , within the last couple of days ; but then the sums it disburses , monthly , for contributions , are scarcely credible ; we are cognizant of the fact , that Mademoiselle Cribalittle received no less than eighty seven cents and a half for her late valuable Revolutionary tale , entitled &apos; The York Town Katy Did , and the Bunker Hill Katy didn &apos;t . &apos; &quot; the most able papers in the present number , are , of course , those furnished by the editor , the eminent Mr. Crab , but there are numerous magnificent contributions from such names as Snob , Mademoiselle Cribalittle , Slyass , Mrs. Fibalittle , Mumblethumb , Mrs. Squibalittle , and last , though not least , Fatquack .
&quot; poor William &quot; said he , &quot; dear lovely child , he now sleeps with his angel mother Who that had seen him bright and joyous in his young beauty , but must weep over his untimely loss To die so miserably ; to feel the murderer &apos;s grasp How much more a murdered that could destroy radiant innocence Poor little fellow one only consolation have we ; his friends mourn and weep , but he is at rest .
the Morrison Co . &apos; s freighter Vigilant , bound from Valparaiso , arrived this morning at its wharf in darling Harbour , having in tow the battled and disabled but heavily armed steam yacht Alert of Dunedin , N. Z. , which was sighted April th in S. Latitude , W. Longitude with one living and one dead man aboard .
its rhythm did not correspond to anything on earth , unless perhaps to the cadence of one or two unmentionable Sabbat chants , and sometimes he feared it corresponded to certain attributes of the vague shrieking or roaring in those wholly alien abysses of dream .
nor were the lower limbs less superb .
this amounts to nothing ; for most women find it proper to take a pair of garters home and fit them to the size of the limbs they are to encircle , rather than to try them in the store where they purchase.&apos;
all experience does not show that &apos; drowned bodies &apos; require from six to ten days for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring them to the surface .
a small party of men , clad in garments half Indian , half European , and officered by gentlemen in a uniform partly British , were engaged , at great odds , with the swarming rabble of the alleys .
&quot; profane varlet &quot; said the president , now turning his attention to the worthy Hugh , &quot; profane and execrable wretch we have said , that in consideration of those rights which , even in thy filthy person , we feel no inclination to violate , we have condescended to make reply to thy rude and unseasonable inquiries .
its fashion , too , was of my own fantastic invention ; for I was fastidious to an absurd degree of coxcombry , in matters of this frivolous nature .
what happiness is so true and unclouded , as the overflowing and talkative delight of young people .
the weird silhouette on that remote peak must have been a spectacle of infinite grotesqueness and impressiveness , but no observer was in a mood for aesthetic appreciation .
as this gust of passion passed from me , I felt more composed .
then I saw him pull the curtains of the three small paned windows that barely shewed themselves against the lightening sky ; after which he crossed to the mantel , struck flint and steel , lighted two candles of a candelabrum of twelve sconces , and made a gesture enjoining soft toned speech .
it was at length arranged that we should live together during my stay in the city ; and as my worldly circumstances were somewhat less embarrassed than his own , I was permitted to be at the expense of renting , and furnishing in a style which suited the rather fantastic gloom of our common temper , a time eaten and grotesque mansion , long deserted through superstitions into which we did not inquire , and tottering to its fall in a retired and desolate portion of the Faubourg St. Germain .
with this resolution I traversed the northern highlands and fixed on one of the remotest of the Orkneys as the scene of my labours .
the next day he returned .
these fellows , knowing the extravagant gullibility of the age , set their wits to work in the imagination of improbable possibilities of odd accidents , as they term them ; but to a reflecting intellect like mine , &quot; I added , in parenthesis , putting my forefinger unconsciously to the side of my nose , &quot; to a contemplative understanding such as I myself possess , it seems evident at once that the marvelous increase of late in these &apos; odd accidents &apos; is by far the oddest accident of all .
that night had the news come of Daikos &apos; fall , and of the advance of the Inutos ; squat , hellish , yellow fiends who five years ago had appeared out of the unknown west to ravage the confines of our kingdom , and finally to besiege our towns .
I turned to the corse strewn earth ; and felt ashamed of my species .
some immaterial alterations have been made in the costume of the player since it came into the possession of Maelzel the plume , for example , was not originally worn .
he informed us all about internal fires and tertiary formations ; about äeriforms , fluidiforms , and solidiforms ; about quartz and marl ; about schist and schorl ; about gypsum and trap ; about talc and calc ; about blende and horn blende ; about mica slate and pudding stone ; about cyanite and lepidolite ; about hematite and tremolite ; about antimony and calcedony ; about manganese and whatever you please .
the labour of hundreds of thousands alone could make this inclement nook fit habitation for one man .
if ever man was mad with excess of happiness , it was myself at that moment .
the day waned ; and , as its light faded away , I became possessed by a vague uneasiness an anxiety such as the sleeper feels when sad real sounds fall continuously within his ear low distant bell tones , solemn , at long but equal intervals , and mingling with melancholy dreams .
to be sure , some bones which were thought to be human , mixed up with a quantity of odd looking rubbish , had been lately discovered in a retired situation to the east of Rotterdam , and some people went so far as to imagine that in this spot a foul murder had been committed , and that the sufferers were in all probability Hans Pfaall and his associates .
a powerful king , conspicuous for a goodness which had heretofore made him meek , and now lofty in his admonitions , with alternate entreaty and reproof , besought his friend to attend to his real interests , resolutely to avoid those fascinations which in fact were fast deserting him , and to spend his great powers on a worthy field , in which he , his sovereign , would be his prop , his stay , and his pioneer .
let us turn to the chimneys .
as I floated closer to that city I saw a great square building of stone in an open space , and felt a hideous fear clutching at me .
I was now convinced that a supernatural agency protected me .
he was a troublesome patient ; and we had much ado to keep him within bounds .
heard it well up from the innermost depths of that damnable open sepulchre as I watched amorphous , necrophagous shadows dance beneath an accursed waning moon .
&quot; behold , &quot; cried he , as he entered , &quot; what bird &apos;s food I have brought for my sparrow on the house top . &quot;
his ambition rested there ; and , after an interval devoted to the interests of his country , was I to step in , and reap the profit ?
if it was I was ignorant of it ; I desired only that which I possessed , and if I enjoyed from your looks , and words , and most innocent caresses a rapture usually excluded from the feelings of a parent towards his child , yet no uneasiness , no wish , no casual idea awoke me to a sense of guilt .
if any aesthete were sincere , he &apos;d put up with the slums for the sake of the massed traditions .
it does not appear that the two throws which have been completed , and which lie now absolutely in the past , can have influence upon the throw which exists only in the Future .
but , ere long , I felt myself getting pale and wished them gone .
it shewed in his collection of trophies and specimens , which were not such as a normal man would accumulate and preserve , and appeared strikingly in the Oriental seclusion in which he kept his wife .
perhaps during former years he had suffered from the late discovered unworthiness of one beloved and so was disposed to set a greater value on tried worth .
it was necessary to take to her mother the corpse of his adored wife , and , on the other hand , the universal prejudice which would prevent his doing so openly was well known .
there was something else some mystery which I could not develope some expression about the countenance which slightly disturbed me while it greatly heightened my interest .
Obed an &apos; the folks was in a dory , but them shapes dove off the far side into the deep water an &apos; never come up . . . .
&quot; they are human cries , &quot; said one : &quot; more like the howling of a dog , &quot; replied another ; and again they bent to catch the sound of regular distant moans , which issued from the precincts of the ruined city .
his council was chosen , it consisted of about fifty persons .
tell me what he done with that funny shaped lead thingumajig as Walakea give him ?
the manager of a circus at the neighbouring town of Bolton was questioned , but he swore that no beast had at any time escaped from its cage .
haste , my friends , apparel yourselves in the court dress of death .
although , at the time , so strong a gale was blowing landward that a brig in the remote offing lay to under a double reefed trysail , and constantly plunged her whole hull out of sight , still there was here nothing like a regular swell , but only a short , quick , angry cross dashing of water in every direction as well in the teeth of the wind as otherwise .
I was borne violently into the channel of the Ström , and in a few minutes was hurried down the coast into the &apos; grounds &apos; of the fishermen .
return as heroes who have fought and conquered and who know not what it is to turn their backs on the foe . &quot;
another thing that disturbed me was the absence of a bolt on the door of my room .
these sights are more than I can bear .
or had some unseen ship indeed landed a legion of unknown outsiders on that hellish reef ?
is the elder Mignaud .
an Italian woman had become hysterical over her missing child a lad of five who had strayed off early in the morning and failed to appear for dinner and had developed symptoms highly alarming in view of an always weak heart .
then again the duration of the trance is for weeks even for months ; while the closest scrutiny , and the most rigorous medical tests , fail to establish any material distinction between the state of the sufferer and what we conceive of absolute death .
there can be no more absolute waste of time than the attempt to prove , at the present day , that man , by mere exercise of will , can so impress his fellow , as to cast him into an abnormal condition , of which the phenomena resemble very closely those of death , or at least resemble them more nearly than they do the phenomena of any other normal condition within our cognizance ; that , while in this state , the person so impressed employs only with effort , and then feebly , the external organs of sense , yet perceives , with keenly refined perception , and through channels supposed unknown , matters beyond the scope of the physical organs ; that , moreover , his intellectual faculties are wonderfully exalted and invigorated ; that his sympathies with the person so impressing him are profound ; and , finally , that his susceptibility to the impression increases with its frequency , while , in the same proportion , the peculiar phenomena elicited are more extended and more pronounced .
&quot; alas Yes , my father , &quot; replied I ; &quot; some destiny of the most horrible kind hangs over me , and I must live to fulfil it , or surely I should have died on the coffin of Henry . &quot;
but my host seemed to relish the view as much as I disliked it .
it is rapid but without pain : I feel a strange pleasure in it .
not that his form of language was at all unusual , for he never spoke save in the debased patois of his environment ; but the tone and tenor of his utterances were of such mysterious wildness , that none might listen without apprehension .
cousin Bobby , and uncle and I say that to day is Sunday : so it is ; we are right .
our quarrel was now made up , and we looked about the room for an aperture through which to survey the city of Edina .
lamentable indeed The bar had buried itself two inches in my neck .
Spose I drop him down fuss , and den de limb won &apos;t break wid just de weight ob one nigger . &quot;
it is possible indeed it is far more than probable that he was innocent of all participation in the bloody transactions which took place .
Raymond made an uneasy movement , and laconically replied &quot; I won &apos;t &quot; The party in the mean time had broken up .
the unfinished pictures on easels or propped against the walls were as ghastly as the finished ones upstairs , and shewed the painstaking methods of the artist .
the most violent storm hung exactly north of the town , over the part of the lake which lies between the promontory of Belrive and the village of Copet .
I wish to see you to night , upon business of importance .
when the sidewalk was laid out a century ago the last of the intervening space was removed ; and in his walks must have seen only a sheer ascent of dull grey brick flush with the sidewalk and surmounted at a height of ten feet by the antique shingled bulk of the house proper .
&quot; the inflation was commenced very quietly at daybreak , on Saturday morning , the th instant , in the Court Yard of Weal vor House , Mr. Osborne &apos;s seat , about a mile from Penstruthal , in North Wales ; and at minutes past , every thing being ready for departure , the balloon was set free , rising gently but steadily , in a direction nearly South ; no use being made , for the first half hour , of either the screw or the rudder .
&quot; but you must know , Sir , that what the squire got from those mongrel salvages was but a small part of the larning he came to have .
I was Steering my course by the map the grocery boy had prepared , and was aiming for the wholly abandoned stretch of southern waterfront which I had previously visited .
&quot; you never smile : your voice is low , and you utter your words as if you were afraid of the slight sound they would produce : the expression of awful and intense sorrow never for a moment fades from your countenance .
Perdita &apos;s humble dwelling was situated on the skirts of the most ancient portion ; before it was stretched Bishopgate Heath , which towards the east appeared interminable , and was bounded to the west by Chapel wood and the grove of Virginia Water .
the old man , whom I soon perceived to be blind , employed his leisure hours on his instrument or in contemplation .
Tabitha Turnip indeed Oh the little wretch But what can we expect from a turnip ?
Idris had visited me ; Idris I should again and again see my imagination did not wander beyond the completeness of this knowledge .
Bob , &quot; he said , for I had sent up my card before ascending myself , &quot; Mr.
how about the somnambulism ?
its total height , from the ground to the apex of the roof , could not have exceeded eighteen feet .
the result of law inviolate is perfection right negative happiness .
he had not seen Gilman on any sleep walking expedition , and had no idea what the curious image could be .
my father looked carelessly at the title page of my book and said , &quot; Ah Cornelius Agrippa My dear Victor , do not waste your time upon this ; it is sad trash . &quot;
his eyes were bent fixedly before him , and throughout his whole countenance there reigned a stony rigidity .
here I assured him I had an excellent pair of garters , and would go and hang myself forthwith .
I call him the tee totum because , in fact , he was seized with the droll but not altogether irrational crotchet , that he had been converted into a tee totum .
there would , I knew , be plenty of deserted doorways to shelter me in case I met any person or group who looked like pursuers .
look down the trunk and count the limbs below you on this side .
the dog things were developed from mortals And no sooner had I wondered what he made of their own young as left with mankind in the form of changelings , than my eye caught a picture embodying that very thought .
we shall endeavor to make room for some of these arguments hereafter . &quot;
the debates had hitherto been long and loud ; they had often been protracted merely for the sake of delay .
he had been dreaming of the house where he was born ; the great stone house covered with ivy , where thirteen generations of his ancestors had lived , and where he had hoped to die .
Jupiter opened it , and a large Newfoundland , belonging to Legrand , rushed in , leaped upon my shoulders , and loaded me with caresses ; for I had shown him much attention during previous visits .
the taste and the smell were inextricably confounded , and became one sentiment , abnormal and intense .
my uneasiness , however , prevented me from sleeping , and about midnight I went upon deck .
for my part , I cannot say but that I preferred the travelling by the slow train of a hundred miles the hour .
she flitted through the rooms , like a good spirit , dispatched from the celestial kingdom , to illumine our dark hour with alien splendour .
let me tell ye suthin &apos; some day yew folks &apos;ll hear a child o &apos; Lavinny &apos;s a callin &apos; its father &apos;s name on the top o &apos; Sentinel Hill &quot; The only persons who saw Wilbur during the first month of his life were old Zechariah Whateley , of the undecayed Whateleys , and Earl Sawyer &apos;s common law wife , Mamie Bishop .
alas could he have formed even the vaguest idea of the suffering his absence had occasioned his friend , would not his sympathizing nature have flown immediately to my relief ?
she had changed as those who take to the water change and told me she had never died .
no sir no We pay for nothing of that sort .
can &apos;t be too snappish .
my louder tones were , of course , unattempted , but then the key , it was identical ; and his singular whisper , it grew the very echo of my own .
to wed immediately would be improper would be indecorous would be outre .
in the midst of the hall was Perdita ; she sat on the marble pavement , her head fallen on her bosom , her hair dishevelled , her fingers twined busily one within the other ; she was pale as marble , and every feature was contracted by agony .
each month brought forth its successor , each year one like to that gone by ; truly , our lives were a living comment on that beautiful sentiment of Plutarch , that &quot; our souls have a natural inclination to love , being born as much to love , as to feel , to reason , to understand and remember . &quot;
he observed that all fools were philosophers , and that all philosophers were fools .
the late death of my friend , in causing his domain to be thrown open to certain classes of visiters , has given to Arnheim a species of secret and subdued if not solemn celebrity , similar in kind , although infinitely superior in degree , to that which so long distinguished Fonthill .
as I heard it , the whole truth rushed into my mind , my arms dropped , the motion of every muscle and fibre was suspended ; I could feel the blood trickling in my veins and tingling in the extremities of my limbs .
thus it is said there were originally but three Furies Melty , Nimmy , and Hetty meditation , memory , and Fiddling .
those windows stared so spectrally that it took courage to turn eastward toward the waterfront .
my fellow officer , Lieut .
it is my design to show you , first , that the thing might possibly have been accomplished : but , secondly and chiefly , I wish to impress upon your understanding the very extraordinary the almost præternatural character of that agility which could have accomplished it .
black terror , however , had preceded me .
the fishy odour , too , was gone .
he wished probably to inspire me with confidence , and give me time to gather together my scattered thoughts .
either the length or the nature of this speech , had the effect of working up Mrs. Simpson into a very extraordinary passion indeed ; and as she made an end of it , with great labor , she lumped up from her chair like somebody bewitched , dropping upon the floor an entire universe of bustle as she lumped .
I was held to him by sheer force of fear , and witnessed sights that no human tongue could repeat .
I still disliked the place , and tried to get my researches done as quickly as possible .
so intense , indeed , was the passion that consumed me , that I really believe it would have received little if any abatement had the features , yet unseen , proved of merely ordinary character , so anomalous is the nature of the only true love of the love at first sight and so little really dependent is it upon the external conditions which only seem to create and control it .
I must complete my work .
the better to deceive the servant in attendance , I did this with the assured air of an old and familiar acquaintance .
for these hopes he abandoned his long cherished ambition of being enregistered in the annals of nations as a successful warrior ; laying aside his sword , peace and its enduring glories became his aim the title he coveted was that of the benefactor of his country .
this reply startled me very much .
I then came to a resolution of pursuing our journey to England overland .
for hours he sat silent and aimless , with his eyes shifting gradually westward .
and yet it was but a miniature portrait a miraculously accurate one , to be sure of his own very remarkable features .
at half past eleven still proceeding nearly South , we obtained our first view of the Bristol Channel ; and , in fifteen minutes afterward , the line of breakers on the coast appeared immediately beneath us , and we were fairly out at sea .
was Obed Marsh my own great great grandfather ?
stupendous and unheard of splendours await me below , and I shall seek them soon .
the box in question was , as I say , oblong .
for three days Gilman and Elwood canvassed the local museums in an effort to identify the strange spiky image , but always without success .
who knoweth the mysteries of the will , with its vigor ?
all others had departed from the chamber of Death .
I obey ; they shall not , though I die the moment they are gone .
I was with him the last night he lived among men , and heard his screams when the thing came to him ; but all the peasants and police in County Meath could never find him , or the others , though they searched long and far .
the friend produces it from his escritoire , and is in the act of reaching it to the diddler , when up jumps the diddler &apos;s dog and devours it forthwith .
my amateur efforts , however , proved of no use ; and when I had brought in a mechanic from a neighbouring all night garage we learned that nothing could be done till morning , when a new piston would have to be obtained .
at the farther end of the apartment was an opening leading out into one of the many wild ravines of the dark hillside forest .
I go from this world where he is no longer and soon I shall meet him in another .
and that same evening , walking among the moon lit forest paths , I poured forth my whole heart , its transport and its hope , to my friend .
just twig that Tau In short , there is nothing like Greek for a genuine sensation paper .
the duration of my absence was left to my own choice ; a few months , or at most a year , was the period contemplated .
while within the influence of the lingering sunbeams , her attitude seemed indicative of joy but sorrow deformed it as she passed within the shade .
but each day seemed to change the nature of her suffering , and every succeeding hour forced her to alter if so I may style it the fashion of her soul &apos;s mourning garb .
he wore spectacles , during the whole interview ; and an occasional signal glance beneath their green glasses , sufficed to convince me that he slept not the less soundly , because silently , throughout the seven or eight leaden footed hours which immediately preceded the departure of the Prefect .
and now a full memory of the trial , of the judges , of the sable draperies , of the sentence , of the sickness , of the swoon .
the great of past ages people it , the exalted hero of our own days is counted among its inhabitants , while life becomes doubly &apos; the desart and the solitude.&apos;
during the whole period of my being thus employed , I endured the most terrible distress from difficulty of respiration , and bitterly did I repent the negligence or rather fool hardiness , of which I had been guilty , of putting off to the last moment a matter of so much importance .
I paused , even awed by the agitation he evinced ; &quot; Yes , &quot; he said at length , rising and biting his lip , as he strove to curb his passion ; &quot; Such am I You do not know me , Verney ; neither you , nor our audience of last night , nor does universal England know aught of me .
that , I was told , was why the original owners had moved out some twenty years after building the place .
that , then , was the period fixed for the fulfilment of my destiny .
in this manner we journeyed for about two hours , and the sun was just setting when we entered a region infinitely more dreary than any yet seen .
but this blow was arrested by the hand of my wife .
the ill fated squatter hamlet had borne no name , but had long stood in a sheltered though treeless cleft between two elevations called respectively Cone Mountain and Maple Hill .
since my escape , I have had several conversations on this subject with an old school master of the district ; and it was from him that I learned the use of the words &apos; cylinder &apos; and &apos; sphere.&apos;
and I am still dreaming .
it is vowed that the birds are psychopomps lying in wait for the souls of the dying , and that they time their eerie cries in unison with the sufferer &apos;s struggling breath .
there are twists of time and space , of vision and reality , which only a dreamer can divine ; and from what I know of Carter I think he has merely found a way to traverse these mazes .
do you know I can scarcely look over this little cliff without getting giddy ? &quot;
on the eel skinning principle , however , he did not seem to be so much incensed at the attack upon his integrity as one might have imagined .
and again the boat appeared and the Fay , but about the attitude of the latter there was more of care and uncertainty and less of elastic joy .
the idea of suicide was excluded at once .
she is built of a material to which I am a stranger .
at least this was my thought as I regarded it .
but all appeared so ingenuous , and all was so fascinating , that I forgot everything except the pleasure his society afforded me .
so on this summer night , while distant thunder rumbled , I left a silent motor car and tramped with two armed companions up the last mound covered reaches of Tempest Mountain , casting the beams of an electric torch on the spectral grey walls that began to appear through giant oaks ahead .
I turned I gasped for breath .
checked in time , before the progress of the rites might evoke anything with which the iron of a Roman pilum might not be able to deal , the Sabbath would not be too much for the powers of a single cohort .
the whole of this part of Thrace had been so long a scene of contest , that it had remained uncultivated , and presented a dreary , barren appearance .
thus it seemed evident that a greater part of the uneasiness attending the removal of atmospheric pressure had actually worn off , as I had expected , and that much of the pain endured for the last two hours should have been attributed altogether to the effects of a deficient respiration .
I attempted to accompany them and proceeded a short distance from the house , but my head whirled round , my steps were like those of a drunken man , I fell at last in a state of utter exhaustion ; a film covered my eyes , and my skin was parched with the heat of fever .
I alluded to the romantic circumstances of our first meeting even to the glances which had passed between us .
Prematurely induced by Intemperance of knowledge the old age of the world drew on .
after a long hesitation and speaking as if with effort .
&quot; it has been split up into what it was originally made of , and can never exist again .
Adrian smiled gently ; and after giving his orders to the gamekeepers , he came up to me ; putting his arm in mine , we walked together to the mansion .
&quot; I &apos;m gwine , Massa Will deed I is , &quot; replied the negro very promptly &quot; mos out to the eend now . &quot;
Jermyn wondered what circumstance had prompted or permitted such an effacement , and decided that the husband &apos;s insanity was the prime cause .
but , when the idea of presenting myself in the room of my friend intruded , the load of doubt and pain was taken from off me .
I was suddenly seized with a spasm which lasted for more than five minutes , and even when this , in a measure , ceased , I could catch my breath only at long intervals , and in a gasping manner bleeding all the while copiously at the nose and ears , and even slightly at the eyes .
at sight of this extraordinary assembly , and of their still more extraordinary paraphernalia , our two seamen did not conduct themselves with that degree of decorum which might have been expected .
the Turks are men ; each fibre , each limb is as feeling as our own , and every spasm , be it mental or bodily , is as truly felt in a Turk &apos;s heart or brain , as in a Greek &apos;s .
this theory has often been a source of amusement to me ; and many an idle hour have I spent , exercising my ingenuity in finding resemblances .
she refused to read any communications from Greece , desiring me only to mention when any arrived , and whether the wanderers were well .
these things were in no manner to be accounted for , and my eyes at length dropped to the open pages of a book , and to a sentence underscored therein .
he said little , but when he spoke I read in his kindling eye and in his animated glance a restrained but firm resolve not to be chained to the miserable details of commerce .
what I had taken for masonry seemed now to be iron , or some other metal , in huge plates , whose sutures or joints occasioned the depression .
the shapeless albino daughter and oddly bearded grandson stood by the bedside , whilst from the vacant abyss overhead there came a disquieting suggestion of rhythmical surging or lapping , as of the waves on some level beach .
I had desired it with an ardour that far exceeded moderation ; but now that I had finished , the beauty of the dream vanished , and breathless horror and disgust filled my heart .
and as I patted down the last spadeful of mould , I shed the first of the many tears with which I have paid unaffected tribute to my beloved uncle &apos;s memory .
it was useless to oppose his paroxysm of terror : but we soothed and encouraged him , so that after an interval he was better able to explain to us the ground of his alarm .
of that land there is no bound , for beyond each vista of beauty rises another more beautiful .
he mingled in society unknowing of his superiority over his companions , not because he undervalued himself but because he did not perceive the inferiority of others .
among the lessons that Felix had bestowed upon Safie , geography had not been omitted ; I had learned from these the relative situations of the different countries of the earth .
I waited , and the dumb man &apos;s pencil flew .
he said that , for his part , he had no doubt about the matter at all , that it was a clear case , that Mr. Bullet head &apos; never could be persuaded fur to drink like other folks , but vas continually a svigging o &apos; that ere blessed XXX ale , and as a naiteral consekvence , it just puffed him up savage , and made him X cross in the X treme.&apos;
I entered the ominous archway .
it is not more true in the former , that a large body is with more difficulty set in motion than a smaller one , and that its subsequent momentum is commensurate with this difficulty , than it is , in the latter , that intellects of the vaster capacity , while more forcible , more constant , and more eventful in their movements than those of inferior grade , are yet the less readily moved , and more embarrassed and full of hesitation in the first few steps of their progress .
I had walled the monster up within the tomb I AM a business man .
all that day he read on , now and then halted maddeningly as a reapplication of the complex key became necessary .
with this he appeared satisfied , and I resumed my contemplations .
truth and falsehood , love and hate lost their eternal boundaries , heaven rushed in to mingle with hell ; while his sensitive mind , turned to a field for such battle , was stung to madness .
they represented some ridged , barrel shaped object with thin horizontal arms radiating spoke like from a central ring , and with vertical knobs or bulbs projecting from the head and base of the barrel .
and every one has it in their power to do that .
my organs were indeed harsh , but supple ; and although my voice was very unlike the soft music of their tones , yet I pronounced such words as I understood with tolerable ease .
no , Joe said , he had not but he must check up on this .
for that her smile was like her mother &apos;s I could bear ; but then I shuddered at its too perfect identity , that her eyes were like Morella &apos;s I could endure ; but then they , too , often looked down into the depths of my soul with Morella &apos;s own intense and bewildering meaning .
V. Can you say why matter should be less reverenced than mind ?
he had retired to a part of the country where he was not known that he might peacefully indulge his grief .
upon arriving at a large back chamber in the fourth story , the door of which , being found locked , with the key inside , was forced open , a spectacle presented itself which struck every one present not less with horror than with astonishment .
he was a bachelor , wholly without relatives .
&quot; it may look like boasting but what I tell you is truth I began to reflect how magnificent a thing it was to die in such a manner , and how foolish it was in me to think of so paltry a consideration as my own individual life , in view of so wonderful a manifestation of God &apos;s power .
the fact is , I felt irresistibly impressed with a presentiment of some vast good fortune impending .
but the echoes of the chime die away they have endured but an instant and a light , half subdued laughter floats after them as they depart .
he chuckled oddly at my surprise .
as it is , you will easily perceive that I am one of the many uncounted victims of the imp of the perverse .
she yielded to its influence , and the too natural consequence in a mind unattuned to soft emotions was , that the attentions of Adrian became distasteful to her .
her strength was altogether superhuman , but as she continued her choking he reached feebly in his shirt and drew out the metal symbol , snapping the chain and pulling it free .
then without apparent volition we began to move toward the door , whose rattling in the gale held a comforting suggestion of earthly reality .
neither Asiatics nor Africans abound in Paris ; but , without denying the inference , I will now merely call your attention to three points .
I saw the lovely and I did not love , I imagined therefore that all warmth was extinguished in my heart except that which led me ever to dwell on your then infantine image .
again I placed it in the pan , and suffered it to remain another minute .
it was wise to pray and count one &apos;s beads at this season .
do you fancy there are such things as form or matter ?
these young men were clad in blue .
its pendulum swung to and fro with a dull , heavy , monotonous clang ; and when the minute hand made the circuit of the face , and the hour was to be stricken , there came from the brazen lungs of the clock a sound which was clear and loud and deep and exceedingly musical , but of so peculiar a note and emphasis that , at each lapse of an hour , the musicians of the orchestra were constrained to pause , momentarily , in their performance , to hearken to the sound ; and thus the waltzers perforce ceased their evolutions ; and there was a brief disconcert of the whole gay company ; and , while the chimes of the clock yet rang , it was observed that the giddiest grew pale , and the more aged and sedate passed their hands over their brows as if in confused reverie or meditation .
all three had seen the body of Wilbur Whateley as it lay on the floor in a room of that very building , and after that not one of them could feel even slightly inclined to treat the diary as a madman &apos;s raving .
remember that I have power ; you believe yourself miserable , but I can make you so wretched that the light of day will be hateful to you .
the very state of peace in which we gloried was injurious ; there were no means of employing the idle , or of sending any overplus of population out of the country .
once in a while it struck us that this patch bore an uncanny resemblance to a doubled up human figure , though generally no such kinship existed , and often there was no whitish deposit whatever .
in the spring of I had secured some dreary and unprofitable magazine work in the city of New York ; and being unable to pay any substantial rent , began drifting from one cheap boarding establishment to another in search of a room which might combine the qualities of decent cleanliness , endurable furnishings , and very reasonable price .
without the town , on the acclivity of Hymettus , there is a rocky recess which he pointed out to me as the spot where he would wish to repose . &quot;
does not understand German .
the combinations and occurrences of this senseless mode of intercourse were maddening to him .
after this , it is needless to say , that I devoted to the infernal deities both master and valet : but there was little use in anger , and no consolation at all in complaint .
of all the bizarre monstrosities in Gilman &apos;s dreams , nothing filled him with greater panic and nausea than this blasphemous and diminutive hybrid , whose image flitted across his vision in a form a thousandfold more hateful than anything his waking mind had deduced from the ancient records and the modern whispers .
are you then a fit mate for an uneducated shepherd boy , whose only inheritance is his father &apos;s tarnished name ? &quot; &quot; I can make but one defence , &quot; replied Idris , &quot; the same offered by my brother ; see Lionel , converse with my shepherd boy &quot; The Countess interrupted her indignantly &quot; yours &quot; she cried : and then , smoothing her impassioned features to a disdainful smile , she continued &quot; We will talk of this another time .
he regards always the main chance .
this seemed the signal for a general rush .
in the beauty of its typography and paper in the number and excellence of its steel plates as well as in the literary merit of its contributions the &apos; Lollipop &apos; compares with its slow paced rivals as Hyperion with a Satyr .
my convulsions were said to be extraordinary .
the sun was rising as I entered the opening of the hills .
the mode and the hour were all that occupied or distracted me .
but the , feet of altitude is little or nothing , in comparison with the extent of the prospect .
overhead was suspended a human skeleton , by means of a rope tied round one of the legs and fastened to a ring in the ceiling .
the nurses immediately left the chamber , and could not be induced to return .
the prospect of marrying a Christian and remaining in a country where women were allowed to take a rank in society was enchanting to her . &quot; the day for the execution of the Turk was fixed , but on the night previous to it he quitted his prison and before morning was distant many leagues from Paris .
I say &quot; at present ; &quot; for it is only lately that I have been so called having legislatively adopted this surname within the last year in order to receive a large inheritance left me by a distant male relative , Adolphus Simpson , Esq .
this being admitted , I still find great difficulty , owing to the refinedly peculiar nature of our disagreement , and of the personal affront offered on my part , in so wording what I have to say by way of apology , as to meet all the minute exigencies , and all the variable shadows , of the case .
in the enthusiasm of my confidence , I brought chairs into the room , and desired them here to rest from their fatigues , while I myself , in the wild audacity of my perfect triumph , placed my own seat upon the very spot beneath which reposed the corpse of the victim .
it may be imagined that things were in a bad state indeed , before this spirit of benevolence could have struck such deep roots .
in its nether extremity were inserted two kegs , which seemed to answer all the purposes of legs .
not surely if I were infected ; but I felt certain that I was not a few hours would determine the question I would spend these in the forest , in reflection on what was to come , and what my future actions were to be .
he wears a white cravat , an ample waistcoat , made with an eye to comfort alone ; thick soled cosy looking shoes , and pantaloons without straps .
I had some little tincture of information on matters of this nature , and soon became more and more absorbed in the contents of the book , reading it actually through twice before I awoke to a recollection of what was passing around me .
this estate was that which he had inhabited in childhood and near which my mother resided while a girl ; this was the scene of their youthful loves and where they had lived after their marriage ; in happier days my father had often told me that however he might appear weaned from his widow sorrow , and free from bitter recollections elsewhere , yet he would never dare visit the spot where he had enjoyed her society or trust himself to see the rooms that so many years ago they had inhabited together ; her favourite walks and the gardens the flowers of which she had delighted to cultivate .
later I definitely placed that word in the works of a great historian and shuddered when the association came to me .
my progress , if it was to be made at all , would have to be through the less solidly built connecting doors of the rooms ; the locks and bolts of which I would have to force violently , using my shoulder as a battering ram whenever they were set against me .
and , in the constant view , the most objectionable phase of grandeur is that of extent ; the worst phase of extent , that of distance .
and now those eyes shone less and less frequently upon the pages over which I pored .
Professor Angell was widely known as an authority on ancient inscriptions , and had frequently been resorted to by the heads of prominent museums ; so that his passing at the age of ninety two may be recalled by many .
I would be able to see them , but they could not , except by a malign miracle , see me .
then , in the middle of October , the horror of horrors came with stupefying suddenness .
by the God that lives , I swear never to take up that bauble again ; never again to burthen myself with the weight of care and misery , of which that is the visible sign .
he steadily pursues his end , and &apos; Ut canis a corio nunquam absterrebitur uncto , &apos; so he never lets go of his game .
but it is wrongfully ; every one knows that ; no one believes it , surely , Ernest ? &quot; &quot; no one did at first ; but several circumstances came out , that have almost forced conviction upon us ; and her own behaviour has been so confused , as to add to the evidence of facts a weight that , I fear , leaves no hope for doubt .
he became fond of riding ; this exercise distracted his mind and elevated his spirits ; on a swift horse he could for a moment gain respite from the image that else for ever followed him ; Elinor on her death bed , her sweet features changed , and the soft spirit that animated her gradually waning into extinction .
once I swam across a swift river where crumbling , mossy masonry told of a bridge long vanished .
bottles of various wines and cordials , together with jugs , pitchers , and flagons of every shape and quality , were scattered profusely upon the board .
there was a large and exceedingly odd looking bundle of something which lay close by my feet on the floor , and , as I was not in the best humor in the world , I gave it a kick out of the way .
meanwhile frightful changes were taking place on the floor .
in the lone silence of that hoary and deserted city of the dead , my mind conceived the most ghastly phantasies and illusions ; and the grotesque shrines and monoliths seemed to assume a hideous personality a half sentience .
they are with propriety handled only when the severity and majesty of Truth sanctify and sustain them .
how different from the manly and heroical poetry of Greece and Rome Summer passed away in these occupations , and my return to Geneva was fixed for the latter end of autumn ; but being delayed by several accidents , winter and snow arrived , the roads were deemed impassable , and my journey was retarded until the ensuing spring .
it was my friend Alos who spoke , and his speech was one that pleased my soul , for it was the speech of a true man and patriot .
he says that they started with the queerest idea conceivable , viz : that all men are born free and equal this in the very teeth of the laws of gradation so visibly impressed upon all things both in the moral and physical universe .
in the meantime the morphine had its customary effect that of enduing all the external world with an intensity of interest .
at length she arrives at one offering an excellent variety .
how could you suppose that my first thought would not fly towards those dear , dear friends whom I love and who are so deserving of my love ? &quot; &quot; if this is your present temper , my friend , you will perhaps be glad to see a letter that has been lying here some days for you ; it is from your cousin , I believe . &quot;
&quot; then , &quot; I said , &quot; you have been making a miscalculation , and the letter is not upon the premises , as you suppose . &quot;
Klenze had to shoot a seaman named Traube , who urged this un German act with especial violence .
let me speak only of that one chamber , ever accursed , whither in a moment of mental alienation , I led from the altar as my bride as the successor of the unforgotten Ligeia the fair haired and blue eyed Lady Rowena Trevanion , of Tremaine .
sometimes they were the expressive eyes of Henry , languishing in death , the dark orbs nearly covered by the lids and the long black lashes that fringed them ; sometimes it was the watery , clouded eyes of the monster , as I first saw them in my chamber at Ingolstadt .
CHAPTER It was eight o &apos;clock when we landed ; we walked for a short time on the shore , enjoying the transitory light , and then retired to the inn and contemplated the lovely scene of waters , woods , and mountains , obscured in darkness , yet still displaying their black outlines .
we have flown at a great rate during the day , and we must be more than half way across the Atlantic .
the tongue had been partially bitten through .
is it de dance of de Saint itusse dat you ave ?
&quot; you might have spared yourself this trouble , &quot; said Dupin .
the village seemed very old , eaten away at the edge like the moon which had commenced to wane , and Kuranes wondered whether the peaked roofs of the small houses hid sleep or death .
most of the servants fled on the first appearance of disease , those who remained were infected mortally ; no neighbour or rustic ventured within the verge of contagion .
I had cast off all feeling , subdued all anguish , to riot in the excess of my despair .
it was deserted by all who possessed the power of removing ; and he , the brother of my soul , was exposed to the perils from which all but slaves enchained by circumstance fled .
it was this circumstance which made the professors so carelessly sceptical , for they felt that true death had not occurred in any case .
and now the first endeavor to remember .
I was a second time aware of some vague sound issuing from the region of the bed .
I judged this party to be the one I had seen in the Gilman &apos;s courtyard the one , therefore , most closely on my trail .
the general floor of the amphitheatre was grass of the same character as that I had found in the road ; if anything , more deliciously soft , thick , velvety , and miraculously green .
they were , apparently , people of rank certainly of high breeding although their habiliments , I thought , were extravagantly rich , partaking somewhat too much of the ostentatious finery of the vielle cour .
she , with an infant son born in Africa , had accompanied him back from the second and longest of his trips , and had gone with him on the third and last , never returning .
this vibration was indefinitely extended , till it gave impulse to every particle of the earth &apos;s air , which thenceforward , and for ever , was actuated by the one movement of the hand .
then , as I playfully shook him and turned him around , I felt the strangling tendrils of a cancerous horror whose roots reached into illimitable pasts and fathomless abysms of the night that broods beyond time .
having , I say , felt its truth here .
&quot; young feller , &quot; responded the proprietor , &quot; ya come tuh th &apos; right place tuh see life .
the fact is , it is becoming of more and more importance every day ; and the reward has been lately doubled .
August must pass , and by the middle of September we may hope .
this faculty , or instinct , was now rouzed .
I cut off the head and the arms and the legs .
tell me , therefore , whether you object to an immediate solemnization of the marriage .
the black thing facing me had become only a head with eyes , impotently trying to wriggle across the sinking floor in my direction , and occasionally emitting feeble little spits of immortal malice .
it was as if the bus were about to keep on in its ascent , leaving the sane earth altogether and merging with the unknown arcana of upper air and cryptical sky .
but , although I suffered much , I was a thankful boy in the main .
I could not wonder at the vehemence of her care ; her very soul was tenderness ; she trusted indeed that she should not outlive me if I became the prey of the vast calamity , and this thought sometimes relieved her .
&quot; from whom is this letter ? &quot;
I mean it as synonymous with happiness .
&quot; yes , &quot; she replied , leaning fully back in her chair , and stretching out her lower limbs at great length ; &quot; yes , Moissart , and Voissart , and Croissart , and Froissart .
the old man &apos;s glance brought Blandot &apos;s remark to my mind , and with a certain capriciousness I felt a wish to look out over the wide and dizzying panorama of moonlit roofs and city lights beyond the hill top , which of all the dwellers in the Rue d &apos;Auseil only this crabbed musician could see .
the moon , which wanted two days of being full , was of a terrible bigness .
in fact , the lady had been buried alive .
it is impossible to say what monstrous depth I had attained when my spade , and soon my feet , broke through the ground beneath .
there was &apos; The Dead Alive , &apos; a capital thing the record of a gentleman &apos;s sensations when entombed before the breath was out of his body full of tastes , terror , sentiment , metaphysics , and erudition .
one of them shrieked loudly and reverberently : &quot; Ahrrh . . .
to increase the chances of obtaining food , the two separate , and live as far apart as possible .
Yuh can &apos;t ask for nothin &apos; we ain &apos;t got . &quot;
having thus finished her tale , and given such an account as she deemed fit , of the motives of her abstaining from all endeavour to obtain aid from her countrymen , Evadne paused ; yet she seemed to have more to say , to which she was unable to give words .
as I shivered and brooded on the casting of that brain blasting shadow , I knew that I had at last pried out one of earth &apos;s supreme horrors one of those nameless blights of outer voids whose faint daemon scratchings we sometimes hear on the farthest rim of space , yet from which our own finite vision has given us a merciful immunity .
hate would have been mercy then .
at first little attention was paid to the man &apos;s asseveration ; but his evident terror , and the dogged obstinacy with which he persisted in his story , had at length their natural effect upon the crowd .
when disappointment has sullied his beauty , when a soldier &apos;s hardships have bent his manly form , and loneliness made even triumph bitter to him , then you will repent ; and regret for the irreparable change &quot; will move In hearts all rocky now , the late remorse of love . &quot;
o , no yet he lives with you and in you there .
towards morning I was possessed by a kind of nightmare ; I felt the fiend &apos;s grasp in my neck and could not free myself from it ; groans and cries rang in my ears .
it was at this time , in the height of his glory , that he became acquainted with Elinor .
the last blessing of humanity was wrested from us ; we might no longer hope .
an old man , with a silver beard , decrepid and bald , he might be her grandfather , interposed to save her ; the battle axe of one of them clove his skull .
once when the wind was soft and scented I heard the south calling , and sailed endlessly and languorously under strange stars .
the sound of weird lyric melody was what aroused me .
you yet even have not seen enough of the world to know the stupendous difference that exists between the women we meet in dayly life and a nymph of the woods such as you were , in whose eyes alone mankind may study for centuries grow wiser purer .
she would not permit the gardens to be neglected , nor the very flowers in the cottage lattices to droop from want of care .
they did not know that beauty lies in harmony , and that loveliness of life has no standard amidst an aimless cosmos save only its harmony with the dreams and the feelings which have gone before and blindly moulded our little spheres out of the rest of chaos .
about two miles nearer the land , arose another of smaller size , hideously craggy and barren , and encompassed at various intervals by a cluster of dark rocks .
as sure as you drop that beetle I &apos;ll break your neck .
at first she started from the unaccustomed sound ; soon she got used to it and to love it , and she listened with avidity to the account of his achievements .
although I could not at first precisely ascertain to what degree the occurrence had affected me , I determined at all events to conceal the matter from my wife , until further experience should discover to me the extent of this my unheard of calamity .
but I do not pretend that my protestations should acquit me ; I rest my innocence on a plain and simple explanation of the facts which have been adduced against me , and I hope the character I have always borne will incline my judges to a favourable interpretation where any circumstance appears doubtful or suspicious . &quot;
Gilman sometimes compared the inorganic masses to prisms , labyrinths , clusters of cubes and planes , and Cyclopean buildings ; and the organic things struck him variously as groups of bubbles , octopi , centipedes , living Hindoo idols , and intricate arabesques roused into a kind of ophidian animation .
I confined my remarks , therefore , to general topics , and to such as I thought would not be displeasing or exciting even to a lunatic .
there was a human perfectibility man .
it is intercourse with civilized society ; it is the disappointment of cherished hopes , the falsehood of friends , or the perpetual clash of mean passions that changes the heart and damps the ardour of youthful feelings ; lonly wanderings in a wild country among people of simple or savage manners may inure the body but will not tame the soul , or extinguish the ardour and freshness of feeling incident to youth .
I remember when I found it in a dimly lighted place near the black , oily river where the mists always swirl .
this vast , vague personality seemed to have done him a terrible wrong , and to kill it in triumphant revenge was his paramount desire .
in this morbid night solitude and feeble shifting illumination , the vast box like pile displayed obscure hints of terror which day could not uncover ; yet I did not hesitate , since I had come with fierce resolution to test an idea .
so the plague killed you , I muttered .
my baptismal name is Egaeus ; that of my family I will not mention .
meantime the hellish tattoo of the heart increased .
two , and even three days , have frequently been wasted in futile attempts to procure a sufficiency of hydrogen to fill a balloon , from which it had great tendency to escape , owing to its extreme subtlety , and its affinity for the surrounding atmosphere .
his own determination never to enter into public life was insurmountable , and the delicacy of his health was a sufficient argument against it .
in the next instant , a wilderness of foam hurled us upon our beam ends , and , rushing over us fore and aft , swept the entire decks from stem to stern .
then they shuddered as they recalled tales of Old Whateley &apos;s youth , and of the strange things that are called out of the earth when a bullock is sacrificed at the proper time to certain heathen gods .
by a contrivance now common , and indeed traceable to a very remote period of antiquity , they were made changeable in aspect .
doubtless the leaves of the Cumaean Sibyl have suffered distortion and diminution of interest and excellence in my hands .
&quot; it was useless , &quot; the haughty and disappointed lady wrote , &quot; for the Earl of Windsor and his sister to address again the injured parent , whose only expectation of tranquillity must be derived from oblivion of their existence .
&quot; and the man turned his attention from the heaven , and looked out upon the dreary river Zaire , and upon the yellow ghastly waters , and upon the pale legions of the water lilies .
the call of the dead , too , was different .
it was in vain that I repeated to myself with regard to Adrian , that his purse was open to me ; that one in soul , as we were , our fortunes ought also to be common .
with her it was pretty enough to play a sovereign &apos;s part ; and , as in the recesses of your beloved forest we acted masques , and imagined ourselves Arcadian shepherds , to please the fancy of the moment so was I content , more for Perdita &apos;s sake than my own , to take on me the character of one of the great ones of the earth ; to lead her behind the scenes of grandeur , to vary her life with a short act of magnificence and power .
don &apos;t ask me to explain or even conjecture about what I burned .
several witnesses were called who had known her for many years , and they spoke well of her ; but fear and hatred of the crime of which they supposed her guilty rendered them timorous and unwilling to come forward .
hand in hand about this valley , for fifteen years , roamed I with Eleonora before Love entered within our hearts .
this soon ripened into friendship for there was much in the recluse to excite interest and esteem .
at length I climbed out of the hole and dispersed the heaped up dirt , then arranging the great carboys of acid around and near two sides , so that when necessary I might empty them all down the aperture in quick succession .
perhaps her own disappointment added a sting to her thoughts and words ; she did not spare us , and our own reflections added to our disquietude .
high up , crowning the grassy summit of a swelling mound whose sides are wooded near the base with the gnarled trees of the primeval forest , stands the old chateau of my ancestors .
I told her how the fear of her danger palsied my exertions , how the knowledge of her safety strung my nerves to endurance .
the tug of war , I thought , was now to begin .
then let the antagonist narrowly watch the Automaton , until he detect the preparatory motion in the shoulder .
of the tree which grew by the tomb , near the head of Kalos , they also spoke .
I did not shriek or move , but merely shut my eyes .
I felt a maddening desire to shriek aloud .
&quot; then I went down into the recesses of the morass , and waded afar in among the wilderness of the lilies , and called unto the hippopotami which dwelt among the fens in the recesses of the morass .
and as for Luchesi , he cannot distinguish Sherry from Amontillado . &quot;
in my first attempt at exploration I had counted fifty two paces , up to the period when I fell ; I must then have been within a pace or two of the fragment of serge ; in fact , I had nearly performed the circuit of the vault .
Mazurewicz came home at six o &apos;clock and said people at the mill were whispering that the Walpurgis revels would be held in the dark ravine beyond Meadow Hill where the old white stone stands in a place queerly void of all plant life .
I must perform my engagement and let the monster depart with his mate before I allowed myself to enjoy the delight of a union from which I expected peace .
&quot; so much , my dearest Lionel , I have said , wishing to persuade you that I do right .
they flopped limply along , half with their webbed feet and half with their membraneous wings ; and as they reached the throng of celebrants the cowled figures seized and mounted them , and rode off one by one along the reaches of that unlighted river , into pits and galleries of panic where poison springs feed frightful and undiscoverable cataracts .
now that he is gone and the spell is broken , the actual fear is greater .
I took the pistols , scarcely knowing what I did , or believing what I heard , while Dupin went on , very much as if in a soliloquy .
then he gazed long and searchingly at the figure on the floor , noting its great height , and the aristocratic cast of features which seemed to appear now that the wretched flame of life had flickered out .
but you mustn &apos;t get frightened like the other man he got .
many of these took lodgings in the battered houses that had once known the songs of birds and the scent of roses .
others said , We might be happy we said We are .
&quot; did you observe , captain , how suddenly they sank ?
&quot; then , &quot; said I mutteringly , as I turned upon my heel , &quot; then indeed has it come to pass that one truth is stranger than any fiction for Bedloe , without the e , what is it but Oldeb conversed And this man tells me that it is a typographical error . &quot;
how canst thou tranquilly sleep ?
you kicked hard , for Asaph &apos;s coffin was on the floor .
the chasm , deep , black , and hoary , swept from the summit to the base ; in the fissures of the rock myrtle underwood grew and wild thyme , the food of many nations of bees ; enormous crags protruded into the cleft , some beetling over , others rising perpendicularly from it .
in both him and his companion , every gesture is so entirely easy , and free from the semblance of artificiality , that , were it not for the diminutiveness of their size , and the fact of their being passed from one spectator to another previous to their exhibition on the rope , it would be difficult to convince any assemblage of persons that these wooden automata were not living creatures .
each man recognizes his neighbor , yet there are few instances in which any one is prepared to give a reason for his recognition .
I watched the progress of the improvements , and stood by the unlading waggons , as various articles of luxury , brought from London , were taken forth and conveyed into the mansion .
it would fray the serge of my robe it would return and repeat its operations again and again .
but Nith , the lean notary , declared that the old cotter and his wife were more likely persons to suspect ; for their hatred of cats was notorious and increasingly bold .
as I did so I became suddenly and agonisingly aware of the nearness of the carrion thing , whose hideous hollow breathing I half fancied I could hear .
the recollections of my earliest years are connected with that chamber , and with its volumes of which latter I will say no more .
but I presume you are conversant with the soothing practice with its details . &quot; &quot; not altogether .
their troops now came pouring on us from the open country or narrow lanes ; a large extent of unenclosed fields lay between us ; we advanced to the middle of this , and then made a halt : being somewhat on superior ground , we could discern the space they covered .
in my natural state , the cause vanishing , the effect only , and perhaps only partially , remains .
it was a bold question , and one which has ever been considered as a mystery ; yet with how many things are we upon the brink of becoming acquainted , if cowardice or carelessness did not restrain our inquiries .
that she had been bewildered when questioned by the market woman was not surprising , since she had passed a sleepless night and the fate of poor William was yet uncertain .
I was suddenly aroused from slumber , about five o &apos;clock this morning , by a loud , crackling , and terrific sound , for which I could in no manner account .
I cannot reveal the details of our shocking expeditions , or catalogue even partly the worst of the trophies adorning the nameless museum we prepared in the great stone house where we jointly dwelt , alone and servantless .
the service was of the counter type , and it relieved me to find that much was evidently served from cans and packages .
we finally decided on the potter &apos;s field , because practically every body in Christchurch was embalmed ; a thing of course ruinous to West &apos;s researches .
&quot; full of these ideas , I prepared myself with a pair of green spectacles , and called one fine morning , quite by accident , at the ministerial hotel .
the portrait , I have already said , was that of a young girl .
if pity , and admiration , and gentle affection can wean you from despair let me attempt the task .
I handed Zadok the bottle , and he drained it to the last drop .
for the glance of those wild appealing eyes ? for the unusual tumult of that throbbing bosom ?
this advice , although good , was totally inapplicable to my case ; I should have been the first to hide my grief and console my friends if remorse had not mingled its bitterness , and terror its alarm , with my other sensations .
the father had died during the child &apos;s infancy , and from the period of his death , until within eighteen months before the assassination which forms the subject of our narrative , the mother and daughter had dwelt together in the Rue Pavée Saint Andrée ; Madame there keeping a pension , assisted by Marie .
you say your master is sick .
my father &apos;s health was deeply shaken by the horror of the recent events .
scientific men were little more affected , though four cases of vague description suggest fugitive glimpses of strange landscapes , and in one case there is mentioned a dread of something abnormal .
&quot; fond and foolish ones , &quot; I said , &quot; we have lost for ever treasures far more precious than these ; and we desert them , to preserve treasures to which in comparison they are nothing .
for indeed strange things shall happen , and secret things be known , and many centuries shall pass away , ere these memorials be seen of men .
he was a believer in the divinity of genius and always opposed a stern disbelief to the objections of those petty cavillers and minor critics who wish to reduce all men to their own miserable level &quot; I will make a scientific simile &quot; he would say , &quot; in the manner , if you will , of Dr. Darwin I consider the alledged errors of a man of genius as the aberrations of the fixed stars .
assuredly he would have cast it adrift .
it was inside this circle that the ring of worshippers jumped and roared , the general direction of the mass motion being from left to right in endless Bacchanal between the ring of bodies and the ring of fire .
our minds , late spread abroad through countless spheres and endless combinations of thought , now retrenched themselves behind this wall of flesh , eager to preserve its well being only .
&apos;I shell have to x this ere paragrab , &apos; said he to himself , as he read it over in astonishment , &apos; but it &apos;s jest about the awfulest o wy paragrab I ever did see &apos; : so x it he did , unflinchingly , and to press it went x ed .
absence cannot have rendered you callous to our joys and griefs ; and how shall I inflict pain on my long absent son ?
it was all low very No profundity , no reading , no metaphysics nothing which the learned call spirituality , and which the unlearned choose to stigmatize as cant .
I had not seen him in four years , but my uncle once implied that his state , both mental and physical , was very bad .
I was agonized with the idea of the possibility that the reverse of this might happen .
the heart sick avoid distant prospects as a pestilence . &quot;
this you may slip in quite a propos when you are struggling in the last agonies with the chicken bone .
hardly , however , had we done with our rejoicings , when an unforeseen accident occurred which discouraged us in no little degree .
his extreme infirmity and long continued ill health had obtained him the privilege of remaining unmanacled ; and habited in his gallows costume one very similar to my own , he lay at full length in the bottom of the hangman &apos;s cart which happened to be under the windows of the surgeon at the moment of my precipitation without any other guard than the driver , who was asleep , and two recruits of the sixth infantry , who were drunk .
it wa &apos;n&apos;t me that put this Dee copy in the shape it is . . .
learn from me , dear lady , to submit in patience to the will of heaven &quot; During this conversation I had retired to a corner of the prison room , where I could conceal the horrid anguish that possessed me .
but think not that delight and understanding dwell just across the Karthian hills , or in any spot thou canst find in a day &apos;s , or a year &apos;s , or a lustrum &apos;s journey .
there were few straight , and no long uninterrupted lines .
thus would I speak to myself of Cathuria , but ever would the bearded man warn me to turn back to the happy shores of Sona Nyl ; for Sona Nyl is known of men , while none hath ever beheld Cathuria .
it subsided at length ; and , throwing himself on the couch , he remained silent and motionless , except that his changeful features shewed a strong internal conflict .
in one of these was a small and almost imperceptible chink through which the eye could just penetrate .
it was always a very bad time in Arkham , even though the fine folks up in Miskatonic Avenue and High and Saltonstall Streets pretended to know nothing about it .
upon reaching the first landing , heard two voices in loud and angry contention the one a gruff voice , the other much shriller a very strange voice .
when I reflected on the magic look of those deep eyes I wept , but gently , lest my sobs should disturb the fairy scene .
the unendurable oppression of the lungs the stifling fumes from the damp earth the clinging to the death garments the rigid embrace of the narrow house the blackness of the absolute Night the silence like a sea that overwhelms the unseen but palpable presence of the conqueror worm these things , with the thoughts of the air and grass above , with memory of dear friends who would fly to save us if but informed of our fate , and with consciousness that of this fate they can never be informed that our hopeless portion is that of the really dead these considerations , I say , carry into the heart , which still palpitates , a degree of appalling and intolerable horror from which the most daring imagination must recoil .
only two persons suspect what did happen Carrington Harris and myself .
this taking a toll from a great crowd of people is an excessively troublesome thing .
there is , consequently , now no longer any part of the man in the main compartment his body being behind the machinery in cupboard No . , and his legs in the space occupied by the drawer .
night would soon fall , and it was then that the mountainous blasphemy lumbered upon its eldritch course .
and now having succeeded in my attempt , and being quite alone peace returned to me .
this honor is , however , more properly attributable to Cambyses , the son of Cyrus .
I saw the features of the Harris line , masculine and feminine , adult and infantile , and other features old and young , coarse and refined , familiar and unfamiliar .
a certain set of highly ingenious resources are , with the Prefect , a sort of Procrustean bed , to which he forcibly adapts his designs .
he ordered them burnt as soon as possible in the capacious fireplace .
she looked on Clara with a countenance of woful meaning , but she did not speak .
now , in restoring the abandoned upper story of the house , he was a no less thorough craftsman .
farewell , Woodville , the turf will soon be green on my grave ; and the violets will bloom on it .
love had crept in , noiseless , terrorless at first , till each felt their life bound up in the other , and at the same time knew that they must part .
I had heard that she was lovely , amiable , and fascinating .
each word struck the sense , as our life &apos;s passing bell ; we feared to look at each other , but bent our gaze on the stage , as if our eyes could fall innocuous on that alone .
why the beings and the sculptures lingered so late in the world , even until the coming of men , none can tell ; unless it was because the land of Mnar is very still , and remote from most other lands both of waking and of dream .
but by God , Eliot , it was a photograph from life .
she forgot even her own regret in her endeavours to make us forget .
it was the most vivid dream in years , drawing upon wells of the subconscious long untouched and forgotten .
he concluded a long harangue by taking off his funnel cap , inserting the tube into my gullet , and thus deluging me with an ocean of Kirschenwässer , which he poured , in a continuous flood , from one of the long necked bottles that stood him instead of an arm .
for the benefit of those who have not , therefore , it will be only proper that I should enter into some account of it .
there was no sidewalk , but many houses had high doors reached by double flights of steps with iron railings .
as we entered this city our minds were filled with the remembrance of the events that had been transacted there more than a century and a half before .
he woke late Friday , clear of head , though sober with a gnawing fear and tremendous sense of responsibility .
I had , indeed , little power of reflection left , and the violence of the pain in my head seemed to be greatly on the increase .
there was only a single leg , however , apparent .
Idris had a natural musical talent ; and her voice , which had been carefully cultivated , was full and sweet .
ah , dream too bright to last Ah , starry Hope , that didst arise But to be overcast A voice from out the Future cries , &quot; onward &quot; but o &apos;er the past dim gulf my spirit hovering lies , mute motionless aghast For alas alas with me The light of life is o &apos;er .
and thus rumpled it was discovered .
his heart was exhausted by the recent events ; his enjoyment of life was destroyed by the resentment of Perdita , and the flight of Evadne ; and the inflexibility of the former , set the last seal upon the annihilation of his hopes .
the lady was deposited in her family vault , which , for three subsequent years , was undisturbed .
I anticipated nothing less than death , and death in a few minutes .
I dismounted to her aid , while she , with heavy groans , and her hand placed on her side , resisted my attempt to lead her on .
&quot; and , sir , &quot; said I , screaming in his ear , &quot; you mentioned something before dinner about the danger incurred in the old system of soothing .
murder , then , has been committed by some third party ; and the voices of this third party were those heard in contention .
crossing the bridge and turning toward the roar of the lower falls , I passed close to the Marsh refinery , which seemed oddly free from the noise of industry .
the widest portion was within eighty yards of the southern extreme .
it seems to me I hiccoughed a farewell from my own parched throat as I lurched out into the street ; a thin stream of grease following me through the door to the rain drenched sidewalk .
it must have been somewhere , though ; and the sight of it as he snatched it in his sleep must have caused the odd dream picture of the balustraded terrace .
a pipe ? impossible And in the middle of the Carnival &quot; &quot; I have my doubts , &quot; I replied ; &quot; and I was silly enough to pay the full Amontillado price without consulting you in the matter .
just what foreign blood was in him I could not even guess .
Mis en notre langve par J. B. D. A. Paris , chez Francois Piot , pres la Fontaine de Saint Benoist .
this man , after recovering his senses , told an exceedingly strange story of piracy and slaughter .
with the means thus accruing I proceeded to procure at intervals , cambric muslin , very fine , in pieces of twelve yards each ; twine ; a lot of the varnish of caoutchouc ; a large and deep basket of wicker work , made to order ; and several other articles necessary in the construction and equipment of a balloon of extraordinary dimensions .
and , now , the murderer bethought him , unquestionably , of the bandage about the loins .
I crept into my hovel and remained in silent expectation of the accustomed hour when the family arose .
the hideous suddenness and inhuman frightfulness of the old man &apos;s shriek almost made me faint .
I feel the greatest remorse for the disappointment of which I have been the occasion , but you will forgive me . &quot; &quot; you will repay me entirely if you do not discompose yourself , but get well as fast as you can ; and since you appear in such good spirits , I may speak to you on one subject , may I not ? &quot;
pavement and sidewalks were increasingly well defined , and though most of the houses were quite old wood and brick structures of the early nineteenth century they were obviously kept fit for habitation .
I met also that which had been her grandmother .
but I journey towards England , and I may there find consolation .
as the hour for his coming approached my heart softened and I wept ; not that I gave up my plan , but even when resolved the mind must undergo several revolutions of feeling before it can drink its death .
nevertheless , I feel humbled to the dust , not to be acquainted with the works of these , no doubt , extraordinary men .
&quot; to day &apos;s Sunday , I say don &apos;t I know ? &quot;
I owned but one law , it was that of the strongest , and my greatest deed of virtue was never to submit .
the spirits of Raymond were unbounded ; he did not know what to do with his new got power ; his head was full of plans ; he had as yet decided on none but he promised himself , his friends , and the world , that the aera of his Protectorship should be signalized by some act of surpassing glory .
the last circumstance made me ponder , and I crossed the room and touched the glass .
we lingered awhile sadly upon our oars , with our eyes riveted upon the spot .
the corners of the room were rounded into niches .
what , then , but some exotic emanation ; some vampirish vapour such as Exeter rustics tell of as lurking over certain churchyards ?
it was called an epidemic .
the walls were prepared with a French paper of great delicacy , a silver ground , with a faint green cord running zig zag throughout .
in this retreat I devoted the morning to labour ; but in the evening , when the weather permitted , I walked on the stony beach of the sea to listen to the waves as they roared and dashed at my feet .
he had exchanged a sceptre for a lute , a kingdom for Perdita .
the wind , which had hitherto carried us along with amazing rapidity , sank at sunset to a light breeze ; the soft air just ruffled the water and caused a pleasant motion among the trees as we approached the shore , from which it wafted the most delightful scent of flowers and hay .
there is a man , Schlumberoer , who attends him wherever he goes , but who has no ostensible occupation other than that of assisting in the packing and unpacking of the automata .
I remember the first time I became capable of observing outward objects with any kind of pleasure , I perceived that the fallen leaves had disappeared and that the young buds were shooting forth from the trees that shaded my window .
sleep was a matter nearly out of the question .
one of the phenomena which had peculiarly attracted my attention was the structure of the human frame , and , indeed , any animal endued with life .
&quot; in the case of Madame L &apos;Espanaye and her daughter there was , even at the beginning of our investigation , no doubt that murder had been committed .
he was tried and condemned to death .
between each cabbage and the time piece , again , is a little China man having a large stomach with a great round hole in it , through which is seen the dial plate of a watch .
we put much faith in amusements of a simple kind , such as music , dancing , gymnastic exercises generally , cards , certain classes of books , and so forth .
indeed , there was much of incipient madness in the calm survey which I began to take of my situation .
such is the duty of his friends .
besides , he added , my constant talk about &quot; unnamable &quot; and &quot; unmentionable &quot; things was a very puerile device , quite in keeping with my lowly standing as an author .
there were the &quot; Ordonnance of Philip le bel on single combat &quot; ; the &quot; Theatre of honor , &quot; by Favyn , and a treatise &quot; On the permission of Duels , &quot; by Andiguier .
none but Kalos himself could have fashioned such bas reliefs , wherein were displayed all the splendours of Elysium .
yet another day and the evil was not altogether upon us .
de L &apos;Omelette placed his hand upon his heart .
the water clock was punctual in its duty , and I slept until next morning soundly , with the exception of the periodical interruption .
&quot; I sent for you , &quot; said he , in a grandiloquent tone , when I had completed my examination of the beetle , &quot; I sent for you , that I might have your counsel and assistance in furthering the views of Fate and of the bug &quot; &quot; My dear Legrand , &quot; I cried , interrupting him , &quot; you are certainly unwell , and had better use some little precautions .
you must begin at the beginning .
that is why I was digging idiotically in his grave .
you were ever with me , and I desired no more than to gaze on your countenance , and to know that I was all the world to you ; I was lapped in a fool &apos;s paradise of enjoyment and security .
I took a frenzied pleasure in contrasting its downward with its lateral velocity .
it would only make matters worse to do or summon anything .
did this to search for a more direct current , but found none so favorable as the one we are now in .
a new Lord Protector of England was to be chosen ; and , at Raymond &apos;s request , we removed to London , to witness , and even take a part in the election .
you were thrown , by some surprising accident , on this shore , renowned for its hospitality , seized immediately , and charged with murder .
I trembled violently at his exordium , and my father continued &quot; I confess , my son , that I have always looked forward to your marriage with our dear Elizabeth as the tie of our domestic comfort and the stay of my declining years .
whether you trust me or not , rely on my doing my utmost to further your wishes , whatever they may be . &quot;
rising softly and throwing my flashlight on the switch , I sought to light the bulb over my bed in order to choose and pocket some belongings for a swift , valiseless flight .
but for the inconceivable wealth in the actual possession of the heir , these objects and all ordinary objects were felt to afford too limited a field .
&quot; an &apos; he says , says he , Mis &apos; Corey , as haow he sot to look fer Seth &apos;s caows , frighted ez he was ; an &apos; faound &apos; em in the upper pasture nigh the Devil &apos;s Hop Yard in an awful shape .
on the other hand , when the Turk moves , the corresponding move is made at the table of the antagonist , also by M. Maelzel , who then acts as the representative of the Automaton .
to see the stream of them in that faint , intermittent lightning was shocking .
three sides of this interior crypt were still ornamented in this manner .
by the absolute equalization of this movement or of such as this had the cycles of the firmamental orbs themselves , been adjusted .
went to bed dissatisfied , and in a state of great anxiety and agitation .
they were not sufficiently prononcés , as we have it in France .
seeing that I remained motionless all my limbs were dislocated and my head twisted on one side , his apprehensions began to be excited ; and arousing the rest of the passengers , he communicated , in a very decided manner , his opinion that a dead man had been palmed upon them during the night for a living and responsible fellow traveller ; here giving me a thump on the right eye , by way of demonstrating the truth of his suggestion .
the sentence , no doubt , was thus intended : &apos; in less than half a minute , the respiration being continued , these feelings diminished gradually , and were succeeded by a sensation analogous to gentle pressure on all the muscles.&apos;
now liberated for the instant from the wreckage , I rushed through the hall to the front door ; and finding myself unable to open it , seized a chair and broke a window , climbing frenziedly out upon the unkempt lawn where moonlight danced over yard high grass and weeds .
our only surviving servant drove us .
the mere telling helps me to restore confidence in my own faculties ; to reassure myself that I was not simply the first to succumb to a contagious nightmare hallucination .
this morning , about three o &apos;clock , the inhabitants of the Quartier St. Roch were aroused from sleep by a succession of terrific shrieks , issuing , apparently , from the fourth story of a house in the Rue Morgue , known to be in the sole occupancy of one Madame L &apos;Espanaye , and her daughter Mademoiselle Camille L &apos;Espanaye .
this had dashed the triumphant and rapturous emotions of maternity with grief and fear .
it was found necessary at last to check the spirit of sacrifice , and to remind those whose generosity proceeded to lavish waste , that , until the present state of things became permanent , of which there was no likelihood , it was wrong to carry change so far as to make a reaction difficult .
from my earliest remembrance I had been as I then was in height and proportion .
the horror reached a culmination on November , when St. John , walking home after dark from the distant railway station , was seized by some frightful carnivorous thing and torn to ribbons .
no definition had spoken of the Landscape gardener , as of the poet ; yet my friend could not fail to perceive that the creation of the Landscape garden offered to the true muse the most magnificent of opportunities .
alone it will unite me to my father when in an eternal mental union we shall never part .
our cable had , of course , parted like pack thread , at the first breath of the hurricane , or we should have been instantaneously overwhelmed .
the house was deserted , and had been one of those assigned to the invading strangers quartered in London .
induced by these feelings , I was of course led to admire peaceable lawgivers , Numa , Solon , and Lycurgus , in preference to Romulus and Theseus .
I also am unfortunate ; I and my family have been condemned , although innocent ; judge , therefore , if I do not feel for your misfortunes.&apos;
the elements of the strange orb were immediately calculated , and it was at once conceded by all observers , that its path , at perihelion , would bring it into very close proximity with the earth .
you will not hear of my destruction , and you will anxiously await my return .
I would be plain , positive , peremptory as short as pie crust as concise as Tacitus or Montesquieu .
but , besides , I could not bring myself to disclose a secret which would fill my hearer with consternation and make fear and unnatural horror the inmates of his breast .
to the westward , the northward , and the southward , as far as I could see , lay a boundless sheet of apparently unruffled ocean , which every moment gained a deeper and a deeper tint of blue and began already to assume a slight appearance of convexity .
you are confused and oppressed by the majestic novelty of the Life eternal .
as he planned , he could not but wish that the units of his contemplated staircase had been more securely made .
he entrusted to her keeping the treasures of his soul , his aspirations after excellence , and his plans for the improvement of mankind .
a little before four we arrived at the pit , divided the remainder of the booty , as equally as might be , among us , and , leaving the holes unfilled , again set out for the hut , at which , for the second time , we deposited our golden burthens , just as the first faint streaks of the dawn gleamed from over the tree tops in the East .
a short time before Adrian &apos;s visit to Cumberland , the heir of the nobleman to whom my father had confided his last appeal to his royal master , put this letter , its seal unbroken , into the young Earl &apos;s hands .
at this glimpse he nearly fell from his hold through excess of horror .
his dress resembles that of the boys and I need say nothing farther about it .
an &apos; on the wire we could hear a turrible crashin &apos; , an &apos; a hull flock o &apos; screamin &apos; . . .
I made an endeavor to hand her a chair , for I saw that she appeared fatigued with her exertions and it was not until then that I fully perceived my lamentable situation .
Collins refused ; whereupon the strange crew began to fire savagely and without warning upon the schooner with a peculiarly heavy battery of brass cannon forming part of the yacht &apos;s equipment .
well , it &apos;s a queer kind of a town down at the mouth of the Manuxet .
I alighted at Perdita &apos;s ancient abode , her cottage ; and , sending forward the carriage , determined to walk across the park to the castle .
the whole Greek fleet blockaded it by sea ; on land from the river Kyat Kbanah , near the Sweet Waters , to the Tower of Marmora , on the shores of the Propontis , along the whole line of the ancient walls , the trenches of the siege were drawn .
of these , three or four of the largest constituted the play ground .
&quot; I generally rested during the day and travelled only when I was secured by night from the view of man .
another step before my fall , and the world had seen me no more .
&quot; listen to me , dearest friend , and permit me to gain your confidence .
but something too much of these merely personal details , which , after all , are of little importance .
although still several miles distant we continued to approach the sea .
I wished for one heart in which I could pour unrestrained my plaints , and by the heavenly nature of the soil blessed fruit might spring from such bad seed .
I expeck them an &apos; the souls they hunts fer hev some pretty tough tussles sometimes . &quot;
it was in one of the vast and gloomy chambers of this remaining tower that I , Antoine , last of the unhappy and accursed Comtes de C , first saw the light of day , ninety long years ago .
they were like their father , though poor little cousin Lawrence Walter &apos;s son had been an almost perfect duplicate of his grandmother before his condition took him to the permanent seclusion of a sanitarium at Canton .
I have endured toil and misery ; I left Switzerland with you ; I crept along the shores of the Rhine , among its willow islands and over the summits of its hills .
for some months previous to my becoming acquainted with him , his physicians had declared him in a confirmed phthisis .
upon seeing this I fell into a great rage , without exactly knowing why .
with an art worthy a better cause , for example , they have insinuated the term &apos; analysis &apos; into application to algebra .
she triumphed in the idea of bestowing , unknown and forgotten as she was , a benefit upon him she loved ; and with enthusiastic pride looked forward to the accomplishment of a work of hers , which , immortalized in stone , would go down to posterity stamped with the name of Raymond .
with one determined sweep of its muscular arm it nearly severed her head from her body .
he was of an ancient Huguenot family , and had once been wealthy ; but a series of misfortunes had reduced him to want .
the knocking waxed louder , and I hoped that its volume would cover the sound of my efforts .
gradually we equipped our sinister haunt of science with materials either purchased in Boston or quietly borrowed from the college materials carefully made unrecognisable save to expert eyes and provided spades and picks for the many burials we should have to make in the cellar .
thus the difficulty of ascension , in the present case , lay more in semblance than in reality .
in the supreme horror of that second I forgot what had horrified me , and the burst of black memory vanished in a chaos of echoing images .
and mine eyes fell upon a huge gray rock which stood by the shore of the river , and was lighted by the light of the moon .
the wonder of the world and the pride of all mankind was Sarnath the magnificent .
gaol throwed open . . .
had any of the bindings been recently meddled with , it would have been utterly impossible that the fact should have escaped observation .
sometimes she might be wayward and capricious ; but her repentance was bitter , her return entire , and even this inequality of temper suited him who was not formed by nature to float idly down the stream of life .
and , then and there , I threw myself hurriedly at the feet of Eleonora , and offered up a vow , to herself and to Heaven , that I would never bind myself in marriage to any daughter of Earth that I would in no manner prove recreant to her dear memory , or to the memory of the devout affection with which she had blessed me .
affairs being thus miserably situated , I left the place in disgust , and now appeal for aid to all lovers of correct time and fine kraut .
but even as these thoughts came to him he wondered at the source of his strange confidence .
still the bloom did not fade on the cheeks of my babes ; and Clara sprung up in years and growth , unsullied by disease .
when the machine is rolled round to allow the spectators an examination of the back of the Turk , and when his drapery is lifted up and the doors in the trunk and thigh thrown open , the interior of the trunk is seen to be crowded with machinery .
when age fell upon the world , and wonder went out of the minds of men ; when grey cities reared to smoky skies tall towers grim and ugly , in whose shadow none might dream of the sun or of spring &apos;s flowering meads ; when learning stripped earth of her mantle of beauty , and poets sang no more save of twisted phantoms seen with bleared and inward looking eyes ; when these things had come to pass , and childish hopes had gone away forever , there was a man who travelled out of life on a quest into the spaces whither the world &apos;s dreams had fled .
in the centre of this circle , being the station designed for the large cask , I also dug a hole three feet in depth .
at first , the only effect was the strengthening of the faint lines in the skull ; but , upon persevering in the experiment , there became visible , at the corner of the slip , diagonally opposite to the spot in which the death &apos;s head was delineated , the figure of what I at first supposed to be a goat .
I had always felt aversion to my uncourtly patronymic , and its very common , if not plebeian praenomen .
I remained motionless .
that ultimate step came in the following December , and it was when Gilman &apos;s old room was cleared out by reluctant , apprehensive workmen that the gossip began .
I waited for this moment ; all is prepared ; will you accompany me ? &quot; &quot; I will , &quot; replied Adrian .
in the event of your declining this request , Mr. P. will be happy to arrange , with any friend whom you may appoint , the steps preliminary to a meeting .
it matters little why or wherefore I am affected , no power can avert the stroke , and the shadow of Fate &apos;s uplifted hand already darkens me .
&quot; bigger &apos;n a barn . . .
that an odd little dwarf and bottle conjurer , both of whose ears , for some misdemeanor , have been cut off close to his head , has been missing for several days from the neighboring city of Bruges .
I begged Mr. Crab to inform me who was Mr. Thomas Hawk , and how it was expected that I should play him .
you have been my friend in the cosmos ; you have been my only friend on this planet the only soul to sense and seek for me within the repellent form which lies on this couch .
the mountainous surges suggest the idea of innumerable dumb gigantic fiends struggling in impotent agony .
just what Mrs. Harris cried out in her fits of violence , tradition hesitates to say ; or rather , presents such extravagant accounts that they nullify themselves through sheer absurdity .
this silk , as he explained it to me , was a fabric composed of the entrails of a species of earth worm .
the man who had brought me now squirmed to a point directly beside the hideous flame , and made stiff ceremonial motions to the semicircle he faced .
the fact that the body was found floating near the Barrière , is no proof as to where it was thrown into the water .....
he will seek privacy amid the densest foliage , all in vain .
that officer was my dearest friend .
we found that the college had first choice in every case , so that it might be necessary to remain in Arkham during the summer , when only the limited summer school classes were held .
sometimes , indeed , I felt a wish for happiness and thought with melancholy delight of my beloved cousin or longed , with a devouring maladie du pays , to see once more the blue lake and rapid Rhone , that had been so dear to me in early childhood ; but my general state of feeling was a torpor in which a prison was as welcome a residence as the divinest scene in nature ; and these fits were seldom interrupted but by paroxysms of anguish and despair .
in the former the merit consists in seeing into the nature of affairs a very great deal farther than anybody else .
she could not have thought of returning to brave this suspicion ; but the suspicion becomes a point of trivial importance to her , if we suppose her not intending to return .
I acceded with pleasure to this proposition : I was fond of exercise , and Clerval had always been my favourite companion in the ramble of this nature that I had taken among the scenes of my native country .
as I applied so closely , it may be easily conceived that my progress was rapid .
he had never seen a city before , but had no thought save to find his way to the university grounds ; where , indeed , he passed heedlessly by the great white fanged watchdog that barked with unnatural fury and enmity , and tugged frantically at its stout chain .
the board itself is eighteen inches square .
isolated as I was , modern science had produced no impression upon me , and I laboured as in the Middle Ages , as wrapt as had been old Michel and young Charles themselves in the acquisition of daemonological and alchemical learning .
some peculiarities , either in his early education , or in the nature of his intellect , had tinged with what is termed materialism all his ethical speculations ; and it was this bias , perhaps , which led him to believe that the most advantageous at least , if not the sole legitimate field for the poetic exercise , lies in the creation of novel moods of purely physical loveliness .
go you to England , and leave me where alone I can consent to drag out the miserable days which I must still live . &quot;
not so We are presently to die , let us then enjoy to its full relish the remnant of our lives .
her countenance , which for years had not expressed a feeling unallied to affection , became again radiant and satisfied .
of the swarthy cult fiends on the Alert he speaks with significant horror .
here was an opening for my plans of offence , and I made use of it with all the brute impetuosity I derived from my active mode of life .
he made no answer , but I perceived a tremor about the lips , and was thus induced to repeat the question , again and again .
they could not place reliance on them , but turned with tenfold dependence to the succour and advice of their equals .
I boarded the empty coach and took the same seat I had taken before , but was hardly settled before Sargent reappeared and began mumbling in a throaty voice of peculiar repulsiveness .
the figures were about four and a half inches in height , while the spiky arms gave them a maximum diameter of about two and a half inches .
this company I will endeavor to delineate one by one .
presently I found , by the frequent recurrence of some sound which the stranger repeated after them , that she was endeavouring to learn their language ; and the idea instantly occurred to me that I should make use of the same instructions to the same end .
&quot; these assertions have been tacitly received by every paper in Paris , with the exception of Le Moniteur .
whatever Clara &apos;s intention had been in asking to be brought hither , it was balked by the presence of the soldiers .
but she will not , I am sure she will not ; and then I shall be happy again , even after the sad death of my little William . &quot;
this it is not ; but a conception of this nature will bring you near a comprehension of what it is .
no book had ever really hinted of it , though the deathless Chinamen said that there were double meanings in the Necronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred which the initiated might read as they chose , especially the much discussed couplet : &quot; that is not dead which can eternal lie , And with strange aeons even death may die . &quot;
on the contrary , the Automaton playing , as it actually does , with the left arm , all difficulties vanish .
my father &apos;s care and attentions were indefatigable , but he did not know the origin of my sufferings and sought erroneous methods to remedy the incurable ill .
Raymond absent , struggling with difficulties , lost to the power and rank of the Protectorate , exposed to the perils of war , became an object of anxious interest ; not that she felt any inclination to recall him , if recall must imply a return to their former union .
the old gentry , representing the two or three armigerous families which came from Salem in , have kept somewhat above the general level of decay ; though many branches are sunk into the sordid populace so deeply that only their names remain as a key to the origin they disgrace .
&quot; aye , that I will , &quot; said he gaily , &quot; that &apos;s my cue now ; be with me to morrow morning by seven ; be secret and faithful ; and you shall be groom of the stole ere long . &quot;
my mind , stunned and chaotic as it was , still held the frantic craving for light ; and not even the fantastic wonder which had happened could stay my course .
a camp meeting , or something similar , is to be held at a certain spot which is accessible only by means of a free bridge .
Armitage , half stunned , could only telephone for Rice and Morgan .
&quot; I surely do not hear you aright You did not intend to say , eh ? that you had never heard either of the learned Doctor Tarr , or of the celebrated Professor Fether ? &quot; &quot; I am forced to acknowledge my ignorance , &quot; I replied ; &quot; but the truth should be held inviolate above all things .
the increasing thunder must have affected my dreams , for in the brief time I slept there came to me apocalyptic visions .
I lack words to express the full extent , or the earnest abandon of his persuasion .
but the chances the chances True desperate : but scarcely more desperate than the Duc .
to the vanished Herbert West and to me the disgust and horror were supreme .
it had , a rumour indeed said , been the Throckmorton graveyard ; but as I examined the records more carefully , I found that the graves had all been transferred at an early date to the North Burial Ground on the Pawtucket West road .
the air was not quite so pure as before , but the spirit of the place had not changed .
there were eyes and a blemish .
beneath are the plains of Italy , or the vast undulations of the wave like Apennines : fertility reposes in their many folds , and woods crown the summits .
they were really quite sorry in their way for the lonely , unpopular old fellow , whom everybody shunned , and at whom all the dogs barked singularly .
this point , therefore , I considered as sufficiently settled .
he was excessively punctilious , too , upon small points of honor , and , after his own fashion , was a man of his word , beyond doubt .
my heart beat calmly as that of one who slumbers in innocence .
all this , and more much more would I most willingly detail .
he employed certain powerful restoratives suggested by no little medical learning .
this girl had always been the favourite of her father , but through a strange perversity , her mother could not endure her , and after the death of M. Moritz , treated her very ill .
we nevertheless , for your unhallowed intrusion upon our councils , believe it our duty to mulct thee and thy companion in each a gallon of Black Strap having imbibed which to the prosperity of our kingdom at a single draught and upon your bended knees ye shall be forthwith free either to proceed upon your way , or remain and be admitted to the privileges of our table , according to your respective and individual pleasures . &quot;
you have left me no power to consider whether I am just to you or not .
the mathematicians , I grant you , have done their best to promulgate the popular error to which you allude , and which is none the less an error for its promulgation as truth .
dearest Lionel , you cannot guess what I have suffered during these long months .
I continue the translation : &quot; what , then , are the facts on which M. Beauvais says that he has no doubt the body was that of Marie Rogêt ?
in the morning both the Frye and the Seth Bishop households reported excitement among the dogs and vague sounds and stenches from afar , while early explorers noted with horror a fresh set of the monstrous tracks in the road skirting Sentinel Hill .
the apartment , I observed , formed , in itself , a wing of the chateau , and thus the windows were on three sides of the parallelogram , the door being at the other .
I finally thought not .
again , I deliberated about casting it in the well in the yard about packing it in a box , as if merchandize , with the usual arrangements , and so getting a porter to take it from the house .
I learned , moreover , at intervals , and through broken and equivocal hints , another singular feature of his mental condition .
a thousand times she reproached herself , as with a crime , that she should revive to happiness with him .
then the lateral branches were innumerable inconceivable and so returning in upon themselves , that our most exact ideas in regard to the whole mansion were not very far different from those with which we pondered upon infinity .
&quot; very true , &quot; said Dupin , as he supplied his visiter with a pipe , and rolled towards him a comfortable chair .
while this strange dialogue continued , I perceived the crowd rapidly increase .
residing in Paris during the spring and part of the summer of , I there became acquainted with a Monsieur C. Auguste Dupin .
these arrangements made , our man of business rents an office in a reputable rather than a fashionable quarter of the town .
with a beating heart I entered the enclosure ; as I stood at the entrance , I heard her voice , melodious as it had ever been , which before I saw her assured me of her welfare .
there be those who say that things and places have souls , and there be those who say they have not ; I dare not say , myself , but I have told you of The Street .
here are pistols ; and we both know how to use them when occasion demands their use . &quot;
to ensure her removal thither , and prevent the irrecoverable loss of her body in the wide sea , she had had the precaution to fasten a long shawl round her waist , and again to the staunchions of the cabin window .
a strange and wild restlessness came over me the more intolerable , because I was forced to conceal it .
the ambition of the inquirer seemed to limit itself to the annihilation of those visions on which my interest in science was chiefly founded .
on two or three occasions I had put him to sleep with little difficulty , but was disappointed in other results which his peculiar constitution had naturally led me to anticipate .
it was the ghoulish shade of decay , antiquity , and desolation ; the putrid , dripping eidolon of unwholesome revelation ; the awful baring of that which the merciful earth should always hide .
calm was now restored to the metropolis , and to the populous cities , before driven to desperation ; and we returned to the consideration of distant calamities , wondering if the future would bring any alleviation to their excess .
we had notice of their intention the day before ; and , early in the morning , Perdita arrived with her daughter .
he discarded his old friendships not from fickleness but because they were indeed unworthy of him .
no man had ever seen the Old Ones .
the &apos; Charles Elwood &apos; of Mr. Brownson , for example , was placed in my hands .
the pitiful throngs of natives shrieked and whined of the unnamable horror which had descended upon them , and they were not doubted .
upon my word , you are nearly as great a donkey as the poor unfortunate imagined himself .
&quot; the Turk quickly perceived the impression that his daughter had made on the heart of Felix and endeavoured to secure him more entirely in his interests by the promise of her hand in marriage so soon as he should be conveyed to a place of safety .
if I have no ties and no affections , hatred and vice must be my portion ; the love of another will destroy the cause of my crimes , and I shall become a thing of whose existence everyone will be ignorant .
in Arkham , too , the curator had told me I had the true Marsh eyes .
but here &apos;s the coffee take it black , Eliot , if you &apos;re wise .
&quot; why so ? &quot; &quot; sometimes the top of a table , or other similarly arranged piece of furniture , is removed by the person wishing to conceal an article ; then the leg is excavated , the article deposited within the cavity , and the top replaced .
but in so confined a space it would , in a short time , necessarily become foul , and unfit for use from frequent contact with the lungs .
there was nothing now to prevent my getting down from my elevation , and I did so .
I recall that he listened with great kindness and patience when I told him , but afterward gave me a nerve powder and arranged for the half year &apos;s vacation on which I departed the next week .
this was an addition to the number of passengers on my part altogether unexpected ; but I was pleased at the occurrence .
I remembered , shuddering , the mad enthusiasm that hurried me on to the creation of my hideous enemy , and I called to mind the night in which he first lived .
then the liberated Old Ones would teach them new ways to shout and kill and revel and enjoy themselves , and all the earth would flame with a holocaust of ecstasy and freedom .
it was an historical subject , painted at my father &apos;s desire , and represented Caroline Beaufort in an agony of despair , kneeling by the coffin of her dead father .
it had no contents beyond a few old letters , and other papers of little consequence .
we no longer struggle with her .
this radiance , so apparent in the tropics , and which cannot be mistaken for any meteoric lustre , extends from the horizon obliquely upward , and follows generally the direction of the sun &apos;s equator .
at one time I considered whether I should not declare myself guilty and suffer the penalty of the law , less innocent than poor Justine had been .
then hearing of my fatigue and abstinence , she herself brought me food .
I approached it , and touched it with my hand .
this date was recalled because it was Candlemas , which people in Dunwich curiously observe under another name ; and because the noises in the hills had sounded , and all the dogs of the countryside had barked persistently , throughout the night before .
somehow I did not like the idea of riding alone with this driver .
each year there was celebrated in Sarnath the feast of the destroying of Ib , at which time wine , song , dancing , and merriment of every kind abounded .
mention a bucolic Yankee setting , a bungling and thick fibred village undertaker , and a careless mishap in a tomb , and no average reader can be brought to expect more than a hearty albeit grotesque phase of comedy .
there congregated sinister men in great numbers , yet always was their speech guarded or in a foreign tongue .
among all the retinue of the Baron , however , none were found to doubt the ardor of that extraordinary affection which existed on the part of the young nobleman for the fiery qualities of his horse ; at least , none but an insignificant and misshapen little page , whose deformities were in everybody &apos;s way , and whose opinions were of the least possible importance .
the regulus of cobalt , dissolved in spirit of nitre , gives a red .
go you and converse with Ryland .
never did I behold a vision so horrible as his face , of such loathsome yet appalling hideousness .
yet , in the former instance , this effect was so far anomalous that I appreciated it only as sound sound sweet or discordant as the matters presenting themselves at my side were light or dark in shade curved or angular in outline .
you shall go to bed , and I will remain with you a few days , until you get over this .
the crossing of the sea could not arrest their progress .
I myself seemed strangely callous .
having no lancet , however , I was constrained to perform the operation in the best manner I was able , and finally succeeded in opening a vein in my right arm , with the blade of my penknife .
but that fright was so mixed with wonder and alluring grotesqueness , that it was almost a pleasant sensation .
he groped his way up , he entered the garret , he found Evadne stretched speechless , almost lifeless on her wretched bed .
it was the recollection of them that had turned her infant gaiety to seriousness , and had impressed her with high and restless thoughts .
remember , too , that I &apos;d just about recovered my wind and gotten used to those frightful pictures which turned colonial New England into a kind of annex of hell .
the pomps and pageantries of a stately court , and the mad clangor of arms , and the radiant loveliness of women , bewildered and intoxicated my brain .
he whispered into his master &apos;s ear an account of the sudden disappearance of a small portion of the tapestry , in an apartment which he designated ; entering , at the same time , into particulars of a minute and circumstantial character ; but from the low tone of voice in which these latter were communicated , nothing escaped to gratify the excited curiosity of the equerries .
an incident has occurred which has given me new room for meditation .
a few months ago , whenever we prayed for the prosperity of our country , or our own , we at the same time prayed for the life and welfare of the Protector , as indissolubly linked to it .
the rest of the furniture of the cavern consisted of piles of leaves , fragments of bark , and a white filmy substance , resembling the inner part of the green hood which shelters the grain of the unripe Indian corn .
&apos;It was soon after dark , &apos; she says .
at one moment I thought the blaze had caught it , and was about to caution you , but , before I could speak , you had withdrawn it , and were engaged in its examination .
they must have been , and were , in the notes , as well as in the words of his wild fantasias for he not unfrequently accompanied himself with rhymed verbal improvisations , the result of that intense mental collectedness and concentration to which I have previously alluded as observable only in particular moments of the highest artificial excitement .
&quot; you do not mean to separate again ? &quot;
the thoroughness of its insulation and seclusion , and the difficulty of ingress and egress , would in such case be the charm of charms ; but as yet I am not Timon .
my mind was nevertheless idle .
what is there inexplicable , pray , tell me , in so very natural an occurrence ?
I mean to say that the sound was one of distinct of even wonderfully , thrillingly distinct syllabification .
found a sensible diminution in the earth &apos;s apparent diameter , besides a material alteration in its general color and appearance .
it is not too much to say that neither of us believe in præternatural events .
in an instant he had edged up the slanting floor around the end of the table and wrenched the knife from the old woman &apos;s claws ; sending it clattering over the brink of the narrow triangular gulf .
Mazurewicz was always trying to make him get a crucifix , and finally forced one upon him which he said had been blessed by the good Father Iwanicki .
I know too much , and the cult still lives .
the wild sickness and the terrible darkness have left me , and I hear no longer that mad , rushing , horrible sound , like the &quot; voice of many waters . &quot;
&quot; we must follow it , boys . &quot;
it seemed to me as if nothing would or could ever be known .
in the despair of my heart I see what you cannot conceal : you no longer love me .
the region was putrid with the carcasses of decaying fish , and of other less describable things which I saw protruding from the nasty mud of the unending plain .
he was a German , but only a Rhinelander and a commoner ; and he was now a potentially dangerous madman .
first I fastened side by side to the ledge of the large window three rope ladders which I had brought with me .
do you not behold the clouds open , and destruction lurid and dire pour down on the blasted earth ?
and I feel that the transition of Juan Romero was a terrible one indeed .
I mean to say that , subsequently to the period when Ligeia &apos;s beauty passed into my spirit , there dwelling as in a shrine , I derived , from many existences in the material world , a sentiment such as I felt always aroused within me by her large and luminous orbs .
a parasol , gloves , and a pocket handkerchief were also here found .
&quot; thou hast conquered , &quot; she said , or the murmurs of the water deceived me ; &quot; thou hast conquered one hour after sunrise we shall meet so let it be &quot; The tumult had subsided , the lights had died away within the palace , and the stranger , whom I now recognized , stood alone upon the flags .
but their import was too terrible for me to give instant credit to my suspicion .
it was thus that I was to be taught to associate evil with their prosecution , happiness with their disregard .
yet when I saw afar out in the sea a black condor descend from the sky to seek rest on a vast reef , I would fain have questioned him , and asked him of those whom I had known when they were alive .
certain letters , as used in certain parts of the manuscript , emerged definitely and unmistakably ; and it became obvious that the text was indeed in English .
beneath me lay my corpse , with the arrow in my temple , the whole head greatly swollen and disfigured .
it had come sufficiently home to him .
and in the end the burgesses passed that remarkable law which is told of by traders in Hatheg and discussed by travellers in Nir ; namely , that in Ulthar no man may kill a cat .
I found playing Thomas Hawk , indeed , a far less onerous occupation than poetizing ; for I went upon system altogether , and thus it was easy to do the thing thoroughly and well .
if I arose to walk it would get between my feet and thus nearly throw me down , or , fastening its long and sharp claws in my dress , clamber , in this manner , to my breast .
these , however , are not individuals , but corporations ; and corporations , it is very well known , have neither bodies to be kicked nor souls to be damned .
what will come I cannot guess .
he left the chamber which contained his wife and child wife and child no more , but &quot; dead earth upon the earth &quot; wild with hunger , watching and grief , his diseased fancy made him believe himself sent by heaven to preach the end of time to the world .
I stepped fearfully in : the apartment was empty , and my bedroom was also freed from its hideous guest .
having spoken , he fell heavily to the floor .
there is a peculiar character about the wood which strikes me as rendering it unfit for the purpose to which it has been applied .
I was glad to see her smile , because it assured me of her total ignorance of her infant &apos;s danger : but I shuddered to think of the revulsion that would be occasioned by a discovery of the truth .
it was possible , I reflected , that a mere different arrangement of the particulars of the scene , of the details of the picture , would be sufficient to modify , or perhaps to annihilate its capacity for sorrowful impression ; and , acting upon this idea , I reined my horse to the precipitous brink of a black and lurid tarn that lay in unruffled lustre by the dwelling , and gazed down but with a shudder even more thrilling than before upon the remodelled and inverted images of the gray sedge , and the ghastly tree stems , and the vacant and eye like windows .
farther off between Moskoe and Vurrgh are Otterholm , Flimen , Sandflesen , and Stockholm .
she was haughty and fearless ; she cherished a love of power , and a bitter contempt for him who had despoiled himself of a kingdom .
for my part , I was disposed to take the whole subject with profound seriousness , and began at once not only to Review the evidence , but to accumulate as much more as I could .
in vain I would then have turned from this scene , to darkened aisle or lofty dome , echoing with melodious praise .
you didn &apos;t use to be so inquisitive .
we were not allowed to converse for any length of time , for the precarious state of my health rendered every precaution necessary that could ensure tranquillity .
&quot; but how was it possible to effect this ? &quot; &quot; I reflected that it had been a point with the writer to run his words together without division , so as to increase the difficulty of solution .
whatever the horror was , it could scale a sheer stony cliff of almost complete verticality ; and as the investigators climbed around to the hill &apos;s summit by safer routes they saw that the trail ended or rather , reversed there .
it was a silent , shocking descent , and I observed after a horrible interval that the walls and steps were changing in nature , as if chiselled out of the solid rock .
but pardon me , my dear sir , here his tone of voice dropped to the very spirit of cordiality , pardon me for my uncharitable laughter .
thus she remained , and thus she rotted , erect .
the uniformity of the top and bottom lines of the wall is fully relieved by occasional trees of gigantic height , growing singly or in small groups , both along the plateau and in the domain behind the wall , but in close proximity to it ; so that frequent limbs of the black Walnut especially reach over and dip their pendent extremities into the water .
later the police in turn called in the coroner and several professors from the university .
they tell , too , of the hideous roar which at the same time came from some disordered water pipe or gas main underground but again I could correct them if I dared .
and , after all , it &apos;s not so very difficult a matter to compose an article of the genuine Blackwood stamp , if one only goes properly about it .
at the same time his demands for cold air increased , and with my aid he amplified the ammonia piping of his room and modified the pumps and feed of his refrigerating machine till he could keep the temperature as low as or and finally even ; the bathroom and laboratory , of course , being less chilled , in order that water might not freeze , and that chemical processes might not be impeded .
with breathless amaze I entered on the gay scene , whose actors were the lilies glorious as Solomon , Who toil not , neither do they spin .
even the Terrible Old Man who talks to leaden pendulums in bottles , buys groceries with centuried Spanish gold , and keeps stone idols in the yard of his antediluvian cottage in Water Street can only say these things were the same when his grandfather was a boy , and that must have been inconceivable ages ago , when Belcher or Shirley or Pownall or Bernard was Governor of His Majesty &apos;s Province of the Massachusetts Bay .
this mob a foreigner , by the by , is said to have been the most odious of all men that ever encumbered the earth .
on the third morning I found the soil dry enough to walk upon with ease .
Surreptitious and ill conducted bouts among the mill workers were common , and occasionally professional talent of low grade was imported .
this functionary grasped it in a perfect agony of joy , opened it with a trembling hand , cast a rapid glance at its contents , and then , scrambling and struggling to the door , rushed at length unceremoniously from the room and from the house , without having uttered a syllable since Dupin had requested him to fill up the check .
but most prized of all the viands were the great fishes from the lake , each of vast size , and served up on golden platters set with rubies and diamonds .
in this funereal twilight he rattled the rusty handles , pushed at the iron panels , and wondered why the massive portal had grown so suddenly recalcitrant .
she promised to commit no extravagance , to be docile , and immediately to return .
why dis berry curous sarcumstance , pon my word dare &apos;s a great big nail in de skull , what fastens ob it on to de tree . &quot;
you stand here shelterless .
Gilman decided he had picked up that last conception from what he had read in the Necronomicon about the mindless entity Azathoth , which rules all time and space from a curiously environed black throne at the centre of Chaos .
the rest is very simple .
he was , however , unable to resist any offer of his favourite poison ; and once drunk would furnish the most astonishing fragments of whispered reminiscence .
for four nights no clouds came , and the moon shone down cold through the thin mournful mists around the silent pinnacle , .
the clan seemed to have left several years before , and improvised penthouses shewed how numerous it had grown prior to its migration .
the city basked under the noon day sun , and the venerable walls formed its picturesque boundary .
he sought to distract my mind from my own seizure by speaking of his theories and experiments ; and I remember his tactfully consoling me about my weak heart by insisting that will and consciousness are stronger than organic life itself , so that if a bodily frame be but originally healthy and carefully preserved , it may through a scientific enhancement of these qualities retain a kind of nervous animation despite the most serious impairments , defects , or even absences in the battery of specific organs .
the cause of my deep agitation being thus shut from view , I sought eagerly the volume which discussed the paintings and their histories .
but latterly there has been a certain deepening of the feeling , until it has come so nearly to resemble the acquiescence of reason , that I find it difficult to distinguish between the two .
each man asked his fellow in whispers , the meaning of this sudden peace ; while Raymond from an height endeavoured , by means of glasses , to discover and observe the stratagem of the enemy .
upon the face were many severe scratches , and , upon the throat , dark bruises , and deep indentations of finger nails , as if the deceased had been throttled to death .
he considers the mode of assorting the cards in each hand ; often counting trump by trump , and honor by honor , through the glances bestowed by their holders upon each .
and on the clear nights the Pole Star leered as never before .
had I decided upon escorting her thither , it had been her design to suggest the propriety of my remaining where I was ; but my own prudential views rendered this unnecessary .
he let him in to see the place just by way of variety , to have a little fun with him .
at other times we made excursions of many days &apos; duration , and crossed the country to visit any spot noted for beauty or historical association .
&quot; do you think that I was then dead to agony and remorse ?
a voice most irresistible , a power omnipotent , drew me thither .
Felix had procured passports in the name of his father , sister , and himself .
suddenly I heard a piercing shriek ; a form seemed to rise from the earth ; it flew swiftly towards me , sinking to the ground again as it drew near .
we sat down ; and for some moments , while he spoke not , I gazed upon him with a feeling half of pity , half of awe .
he tightened his relaxing grip , but this time in a friendly manner ; forcing me into a chair , then with an appearance of wistfulness crossing to the littered table , where he wrote many words with a pencil in the laboured French of a foreigner .
Protestation followed upon protestation , and apology upon apology .
and at the roots strange poisonous flowers lie writhing in perturbed slumber .
the height of the drawer also will be misconceived by those who examine it in a cursory manner .
one morning as I emerged from the damp tomb and fastened the chain of the portal with none too steady hand , I beheld in an adjacent thicket the dreaded face of a watcher .
my own agitation and anguish was extreme during the whole trial .
his proud heart rebelled against this change .
but Raymond , without explaining himself , suddenly quitted us , and in another moment we heard him gallop down the street , in spite of the wind and rain that scattered tempest over the earth .
of course my resolution to keep my eyes shut had failed .
such were the lessons of my father .
&quot; I do not fear to die , &quot; she said ; &quot; that pang is past .
a fever succeeded to this .
I desired that I might pass my life on that barren rock , wearily , it is true , but uninterrupted by any sudden shock of misery .
I would not , if I could , here or to day , embody a record of my later years of unspeakable misery , and unpardonable crime .
half way up elm Mountain , on the way to the ruins of the old Carter place , they found his motor set carefully by the roadside ; and in it was a box of fragrant wood with carvings that frightened the countrymen who stumbled on it .
the silken hair , too , had been suffered to grow all unheeded , and as , in its wild gossamer texture , it floated rather than fell about the face , I could not , even with effort , connect its arabesque expression with any idea of simple humanity .
I recall that the people went about with pale and worried faces , and whispered warnings and prophecies which no one dared consciously repeat or acknowledge to himself that he had heard .
at the present time Raymond evidently wished to appear amiable .
within a few weeks after his advent , Romero was like a faithful servant to me ; this notwithstanding the fact that I was myself but an ordinary miner .
passion there was none .
sometimes , when it is cloudy , I can sleep .
when he smiles , two little dimples appear on each cheek , which are rosy with health .
he is able to contemplate the ideal of war , while I am sensible only to its realities .
he gave his money , but none of his own wishes were sacrifised to his gifts ; he gave his time , which he did not value , and his affections which he was happy in any manner to have called into action .
I do not intend to sail until the month of June ; and when shall I return ?
of none other is there any thing said .
betwixt Sarnath and the city of Ilarnek arose a caravan route , and the precious metals from the earth were exchanged for other metals and rare cloths and jewels and books and tools for artificers and all things of luxury that are known to the people who dwell along the winding river Ai and beyond .
the words heard by the party upon the staircase were the Frenchman &apos;s exclamations of horror and affright , commingled with the fiendish jabberings of the brute .
after the Duke of and Mr. Ryland had finished their speeches , he commenced .
no truly , though thinned , the race of man would continue , and the great plague would , in after years , become matter of history and wonder .
&quot; Dree Vour fibe Sax Seben Aight Noin Den &quot; answered the others .
in a good many places , especially the South and the Pacific coast , they took the magazines off the stands at the complaints of silly milksops ; but New England didn &apos;t get the thrill and merely shrugged its shoulders at my extravagance .
staggering as far aft as I could , I awaited fearlessly the ruin that was to overwhelm .
the whole length of the island is nine miles ; the breadth varies materially .
as he spoke , he knelt on the ground , and raised in his arms a man from whose side the warm tide of life gushed the poor wretch gasped so still had either host become , that his moans were distinctly heard , and every heart , late fiercely bent on universal massacre , now beat anxiously in hope and fear for the fate of this one man .
do I not embrace your knees , and you most cruelly repulse me ?
we were not much displeased , however , since there were no people between us and our sinister source of supplies .
but I scarcely observed this ; rage and hatred had at first deprived me of utterance , and I recovered only to overwhelm him with words expressive of furious detestation and contempt .
she could support herself , she said .
again and again the idea recurred , that he loved another .
that he should come to her alone , wetted by the storm , careless of every thing except speed , what else could it mean , than that , vanquished and solitary , they were to take their way from native England , the scene of shame , and hide themselves in the myrtle groves of the Grecian isles ?
I suppose you told Reid , if you and he had any correspondence over it , that he &apos;d let Pickman &apos;s paintings get on his nerves or harrow up his imagination .
at first , from delicacy to Adrian he concealed her name ; but it was divulged in the course of his narrative , and her former lover heard with the most acute agitation the history of her sufferings .
there was then a long and obstinate silence .
life , although it may only be an accumulation of anguish , is dear to me , and I will defend it .
then he shook my hand , shouldered the coil of wire , and disappeared within that indescribable ossuary .
to me she was everything and nothing ; her very name mentioned by another made me start and tremble ; the endless discussion concerning her union with Lord Raymond was real agony to me .
she heard the name of her own maid mentioned ; &quot; No , no , &quot; replied her mother , &quot; she does not go with us ; Lady Idris must forget England , and all belonging to it . &quot;
I am going to do , as I would be done by . &quot; &quot; but you will never be able to return to the Castle Lady Idris his children &quot; in confused speech were the words that struck my ear .
an &apos; Nick Pierce , an &apos; Luelly Waite , an &apos; Adoniram Saouthwick , an &apos; Henry Garrison ?
I turned them in every attitude .
maybe you ought to , anyhow , for you kept writing me like a grieved parent when you heard I &apos;d begun to cut the Art Club and keep away from Pickman .
I could not help observing , nevertheless , that I had scarcely more difficulty in maintaining my hold and footing in this situation , than if we had been upon a dead level ; and this , I suppose , was owing to the speed at which we revolved .
the Countess was so gentle , and even beyond her wont , amiable with her children , that they began to entertain hopes of her ultimate consent .
he related to them the situation in which he had found Evadne .
we then hurriedly made for home with the chest ; reaching the hut in safety , but after excessive toil , at one o &apos;clock in the morning .
in the present instance , it appears to me that this &apos; public opinion &apos; in respect to a gang , has been superinduced by the collateral event which is detailed in the third of my extracts .
she resolved to prevent or diminish my opportunities of acquiring influence over her children , and circumvented my plans by a hard , quiet , stubborn resolution , that seemed not to belong to flesh and blood .
the shack &apos;s almost tumbling down , so that nobody else would live there , and I &apos;d hate to tell you how little I pay for it .
she looked forward to our union with placid contentment , not unmingled with a little fear , which past misfortunes had impressed , that what now appeared certain and tangible happiness might soon dissipate into an airy dream and leave no trace but deep and everlasting regret .
he had studied beyond the custom of his kind , seeking such things as the philosopher &apos;s stone , or the elixir of eternal Life , and was reputed wise in the terrible secrets of Black Magic and Alchemy .
when I aroused St. John from his sleep , he professed entire ignorance of the event , and became as worried as I.
Mr. Crab smiled blandly as he emphasized the word &quot; recipients . &quot;
now I knew that the light was either real or part of an hallucination so fixed and consistent that I could not hope to dispel it , so abandoning all resistance I ascended to the conning tower to look for the luminous agency .
then , after a long , dreary interval , and prefaced by a fresh creaking of stairs and corridor , there came that soft , damnably unmistakable sound which seemed like a malign fulfilment of all my apprehensions .
only one paper a tabloid always discounted because of its wild policy mentioned the deep diving submarine that discharged torpedoes downward in the marine abyss just beyond Devil Reef .
this the faint light enabled me to perceive ; but the features of his face I could not distinguish .
there seems , however , only one plausible way of accounting for them and yet it is dreadful to believe in such atrocity as my suggestion would imply .
there , like the waves about the Hebrides , the low underwood is agitated continually .
you were remarking to yourself that his diminutive figure unfitted him for tragedy . &quot;
on November st , , there had come to the New Orleans police a frantic summons from the swamp and lagoon country to the south .
and why , Agathos , should they have proceeded ?
the size of the Old Ones , too , he curiously declined to mention .
in the evening these men with their wives and children would sit about gigantic hearths and read and speak .
here was a piece de resistance as Messieurs Ude and Careme would say which suited his perverse fancy to a T. It would have stiffed the indignation of Job himself , to see how much like an old mouser he behaved to us two poor wretched little mice .
the crumbling slate slabs , the patriarchal trees , and the centuried gambrel roofs of the witch haunted old town that stretched around , all combined to rouse my spirit in defence of my work ; and I was soon carrying my thrusts into the enemy &apos;s own country .
in the mean time my own disease for I have been told that I should call it by no other appellation my own disease , then , grew rapidly upon me , and assumed finally a monomaniac character of a novel and extraordinary form hourly and momently gaining vigor and at length obtaining over me the most incomprehensible ascendancy .
it was one of the cleanest and prettiest little dickeys I ever saw ; and I have good reason to believe that it effected the sale of three Petershams .
the Mahometans were defeated , and driven entirely from the country west of this river .
then too , the natives are mortally afraid of the numerous whippoorwills which grow vocal on warm nights .
I could call to mind neither the period at which I had fallen into the trance , nor the locality in which I then lay .
and Life departed from our paths ; for the tall flamingo flaunted no longer his scarlet plumage before us , but flew sadly from the vale into the hills , with all the gay glowing birds that had arrived in his company .
but what a claw Then far overhead I heard a faint crashing which I recognised .
his measures were thwarted , and his schemes interrupted by this new state of things .
this slight incident gave rise in me to the most painful reflections ; nor do I now dare express the emotions I felt .
it at length became apparent that we had missed the Dacia altogether .
but the exaggerated sense of hearing was scarcely less annoying .
I spread the whole earth out as a map before me .
it had a large black seal , bearing the D cipher very conspicuously , and was addressed , in a diminutive female hand , to D , the minister , himself .
it had been vacant from the first for no one had ever been willing to stay there long but the Polish landlord had grown wary about renting it .
odd idol Found in His possession .
yet , not so She did not love him ; she had called me her friend ; she had smiled on me ; to me she had entrusted her heart &apos;s dearest hope , the welfare of Adrian .
famine and blockade were certain means of conquest ; and on these we founded our hopes of victory .
one of these I have already spoken of .
encouraged by her candor upon the delicate point of her age , I entered , with perfect frankness , not only into a detail of my many minor vices , but made full confession of those moral and even of those physical infirmities , the disclosure of which , in demanding so much higher a degree of courage , is so much surer an evidence of love .
and what was that faint suggestion of sound which once in a while seemed to trickle through the maddening confusion of identifiable sounds even in broad daylight and full wakefulness ?
when he had completed his scrutiny , he merely said , &quot; Yes , massa , Jup climb any tree he ebber see in he life . &quot;
the soldiery perceiving him , paused in their onset ; he did not swerve from the bullets that passed near him , but rode immediately between the opposing lines .
the ghastly Danger to which I was subjected haunted me day and night .
yet it might be conjectured that they had not forgotten their ancient heritage ; and it was hard that his heir should suffer alike with any other pretender , if he attempted to regain what by ancient right and inheritance belonged to him .
the disease of the lady Madeline had long baffled the skill of her physicians .
I became the victim of ingratitude and cold coquetry then I desponded , and imagined that my discontent gave me a right to hate the world .
at first it appears entirely deserted of its former inhabitants ; in a little time you see an ant struggling through the upturned mould ; they reappear by twos and threes , running hither and thither in search of their lost companions .
then those who had heard it called everyone on the line , and found that only the Fryes did not reply .
men of strength and honour fashioned that Street ; good , valiant men of our blood who had come from the blessed isles across the sea .
I felt the silence , although I was hardly conscious of its extreme profundity , until my ear was suddenly arrested by the paddling of oars near the shore , and a person landed close to my house .
here , however , is a small piece of ribbon , which from its form , and from its greasy appearance , has evidently been used in tying the hair in one of those long queues of which sailors are so fond .
a door between the two rooms was closed , but not locked .
these fancies , and such as these , have always given to my meditations among the mountains and the forests , by the rivers and the ocean , a tinge of what the everyday world would not fail to term fantastic .
answer me dat &quot; It became necessary , at last , that I should arouse both master and valet to the expediency of removing the treasure .
Obed Marsh he had three ships afloat brigantine Columby , brig Hetty , an &apos; barque Sumatry Queen .
the deceased and her daughter had occupied the house in which the corpses were found , for more than six years .
and she grew strangely in stature and intellect , and was the perfect resemblance of her who had departed , and I loved her with a love more fervent than I had believed it possible to feel for any denizen of earth .
divested of corporate investiture , he were God .
this whole hypothesis was too obviously absurd to require comment , or refutation , and accordingly we find that it attracted very little attention .
white and feathery it comes from the deep to its brothers the clouds , full of dreams of dank pastures and caves of leviathan .
I am not prepared to assert , however , that this rapport extended beyond the limits of the simple sleep producing power , but this power itself had attained great intensity .
she expected freedom of communication , and a return to those habits of affectionate intercourse which had formed the delight of her life .
birth , wealth , talent , goodness ?
within a week two more attacks appeared , but from them the doctors learned little .
he was a giant in stature insolent , rapacious , filthy , had the gall of a bullock with the heart of a hyena and the brains of a peacock .
&quot; and did you find anything there in the attic or anywhere else ? &quot; &quot; there were some bones up under the eaves .
terror stalked him when he reflected on his partial failures ; nameless things resulting from imperfect solutions or from bodies insufficiently fresh .
for my own part I was not sorry .
he meant to please , and he tormented me .
to declare that we were not nervous on that rainy night of watching would be an exaggeration both gross and ridiculous .
why they did this I know not ; save that many hate the voice of the cat in the night , and take it ill that cats should run stealthily about yards and gardens at twilight .
he had , he said , floated off from a very ordinary series of dream pictures into a scene whose strangeness was related to nothing he had ever read .
at this apparent dying away of the noise , the spirits of the company were immediately regained , and all was life and anecdote as before .
of Mr. Monck Mason , and Mr. Ainsworth .
&apos;Snob &apos; is merely a nom de guerre .
around the new position a circle , somewhat larger than in the former instance , was now described , and we again set to work with the spades .
meantime , upon the main dining table , among the bottles and glasses , leaped the gentleman who , with such difficulty , had been restrained from leaping there before .
an hum , like that of ten thousand hives of swarming bees , stunned us as we entered the coffee room .
but , to say nothing at present of this possibility , it was very certain that , at all events , from the , miles I would have to deduct the radius of the earth , say , , and the radius of the moon , say , in all , , leaving an actual interval to be traversed , under average circumstances , of , miles .
both rolled out of the gutter together , and in truth I was very glad to get rid of them .
he is the chief dignitary of the borough , and the very pigs look up to him with a sentiment of reverence .
Sheehan &apos;s pool Room , which adorns one of the lesser alleys in the heart of Chicago &apos;s stockyard district , is not a nice place .
after having made a few preparatory experiments , he concluded with a panegyric upon modern chemistry , the terms of which I shall never forget : &quot; the ancient teachers of this science , &quot; said he , &quot; promised impossibilities and performed nothing .
&quot; and yet , &quot; said Legrand , &quot; the solution is by no means so difficult as you might be lead to imagine from the first hasty inspection of the characters .
she was dressed grotesquely , in glittering robes and shawls fit for a woman ; she appeared about ten years of age .
a discovery which declares , in so many words , that beyond its intrinsic worth for manufacturing purposes whatever that worth may be , gold now is , or at least soon will be for it cannot be supposed that Von Kempelen can long retain his secret , of no greater value than lead , and of far inferior value to silver .
it was the record of a lease , in , of a small tract of ground to an Etienne Roulet and wife .
as I was thus occupied , chill horror congealed my blood , making my flesh quiver and my hair to stand on end .
it was impossible to see these crowds of wretched , perishing creatures , late nurslings of luxury , and not stretch out a hand to save them .
one instant , and the clattering of hoofs resounded sharply and shrilly above the roaring of the flames and the shrieking of the winds another , and , clearing at a single plunge the gate way and the moat , the steed bounded far up the tottering staircases of the palace , and , with its rider , disappeared amid the whirlwind of chaotic fire .
a student , however , was especially desirous of testing a theory of his own , and insisted upon applying the battery to one of the pectoral muscles .
but all human sentiments come to an end .
I formed and shouted a resolution , &quot; Warren , brace up I &apos;m coming down &quot; But at this offer the tone of my auditor changed to a scream of utter despair : &quot; don &apos;t You can &apos;t understand It &apos;s too late and my own fault .
he would well know that this drear sky and gloomy rain would load my spirit almost to madness : if the weather had been fine I should not have regretted his absence as heavily as I necessarily must shut up in this miserable cottage with no companions but my own wretched thoughts .
but in time there came troubles , and the peasants ceased to bless him , and fled away instead as from a doom .
&quot; you will say that I was puzzled ; but , if you think so , you must have misunderstood the nature of the inductions .
I talked more quickly more vehemently ; but the noise steadily increased .
and again and again she made the circuit of the island , while the sun rushed down to his slumbers , and at each issuing into the light there was more sorrow about her person , while it grew feebler and far fainter and more indistinct , and at each passage into the gloom there fell from her a darker shade , which became whelmed in a shadow more black .
Coleridge &apos;s translation of Schiller &apos;s Wallenstein .
CHAPTER I spent the following day roaming through the valley .
the upheaval of ground we traced conclusively to a landslide from Maple Hill , a tall lone splintered tree on whose side had been the striking point of the thunderbolt which summoned the fiend .
three weeks more , and the dispersal of the reporters left me free to begin a terrible exploration based on the minute inquiries and surveying with which I had meanwhile busied myself .
when , upon forcing my way between two savage clumps of briers , I suddenly encountered the entrance of the vault , I had no knowledge of what I had discovered .
about two in the morning a frightful stench and the savage barking of the dogs awakened the household at Elmer Frye &apos;s , on the eastern edge of Cold Spring Glen , and all agreed that they could hear a sort of muffled swishing or lapping sound from somewhere outside .
in a dark corner of the laboratory , over a queer incubating burner , he kept a large covered vat full of this reptilian cell matter ; which multiplied and grew puffily and hideously .
let me take it along , Sir , an &apos; I &apos;ll swar they wun &apos;t nobody know the difference .
look at that castle which overhangs yon precipice ; and that also on the island , almost concealed amongst the foliage of those lovely trees ; and now that group of labourers coming from among their vines ; and that village half hid in the recess of the mountain .
it was to be decided whether the result of my curiosity and lawless devices would cause the death of two of my fellow beings : one a smiling babe full of innocence and joy , the other far more dreadfully murdered , with every aggravation of infamy that could make the murder memorable in horror .
the sun had set and the roseate hue which the clouds had caught from him in his descent had nearly died away .
my name is the Signora Psyche Zenobia .
pervading everything was the most nauseous fishy odour imaginable .
they &apos;s things in it I &apos;ve got to try under sarten conditions that I can &apos;t git here , an &apos; it &apos; ud be a mortal sin to let a red tape rule hold me up .
the sight itself was as simple as it was stupefying , for it was merely this : instead of a dizzying prospect of treetops seen from a lofty eminence , there stretched around me on a level through the grating nothing less than the solid ground , decked and diversified by marble slabs and columns , and overshadowed by an ancient stone church , whose ruined spire gleamed spectrally in the moonlight .
you will remember that it is now the year of the world three thousand eight hundred and thirty .
but whatever it is , they must have run short , for they were devilish anxious to get out .
woods now engulfed him utterly , though he knew the house was on a high knoll that cleared the trees except to the north .
groups of excited individuals gathered at the corners of the streets .
for I do not find that it altogether agrees with me .
we should never see our children ripen into maturity , nor behold their downy cheeks roughen , their blithe hearts subdued by passion or care ; but we had them now they lived , and we lived what more could we desire ?
and then again the sweet recollection of better and earlier times came over me , and I thought of that happy period when the world was not all a desert , and Pompey not altogether cruel .
the whole affair is exceedingly tame not to say flat .
&quot; nothin &apos; was to be diff &apos;runt on the aoutside , only we was to keep shy o &apos; strangers ef we knowed what was good fer us .
and they were surmounted by a mighty dome of glass , through which shone the sun and moon and stars and planets when it was clear , and from which were hung fulgent images of the sun and moon and stars and planets when it was not clear .
but these are not thoughts befitting me ; I will endeavour to resign myself cheerfully to death and will indulge a hope of meeting you in another world . &quot;
the legends and superstitions of Kilderry did not move him , and he laughed when the peasants first refused to help , and then cursed him and went away to Ballylough with their few belongings as they saw his determination .
now I do not complain of these Ancients so much because their logic is , by their own showing , utterly baseless , worthless and fantastic altogether , as because of their pompous and imbecile proscription of all other roads of Truth , of all other means for its attainment than the two preposterous paths the one of creeping and the one of crawling to which they have dared to confine the Soul that loves nothing so well as to soar .
this was just the reverse of what I had anticipated ; but I know not how or why it was its evident fondness for myself rather disgusted and annoyed .
I now observed with what horror it is needless to say that its nether extremity was formed of a crescent of glittering steel , about a foot in length from horn to horn ; the horns upward , and the under edge evidently as keen as that of a razor .
he slowly stepped down from the chair and began gliding toward me with a positively wolfish grin on his dark , thin lipped face .
that which he considered chief was strange to say the simple and purely physical one of free exercise in the open air .
of course you are prepared to identify the property ? &quot;
at length I would be avenged ; this was a point definitively settled but the very definitiveness with which it was resolved , precluded the idea of risk .
in this bag , which was of sufficient dimensions , the entire car was in a manner placed .
well did I come to know the presiding dryads of those trees , and often have I watched their wild dances in the struggling beams of a waning moon but of these things I must not now speak .
the canoe steadily proceeds , and the rocky gate of the vista is approached , so that its depths can be more distinctly seen .
but my endeavours on this head were by no means uniformly successful , even when my plans were the most wittily concocted ; for my namesake had much about him , in character , of that unassuming and quiet austerity which , while enjoying the poignancy of its own jokes , has no heel of Achilles in itself , and absolutely refuses to be laughed at .
a stale trick is his aversion .
Barzai was learned in the lore of earth &apos;s gods , and had gained a desire to look upon their faces .
one morning in Chicago , as the gorilla and Alfred Jermyn were rehearsing an exceedingly clever boxing match , the former delivered a blow of more than usual force , hurting both the body and dignity of the amateur trainer .
it could be turned flat , and directed upwards or downwards , as well as to the right or left ; and thus enabled the æronaut to transfer the resistance of the air which in an inclined position it must generate in its passage , to any side upon which he might desire to act ; thus determining the balloon in the opposite direction .
of course I anticipate the rising of the sun here at London by just one hour .
if I saw a lovely woman , I thought , does my Mathilda resemble her ?
no foam was seen , as in the case of the merely drowned .
&quot; Wal , Sir , that was the time Obed begun to git on his feet agin .
just what the year was , I cannot say ; for since then I have known many ages and dimensions , and have had all my notions of time dissolved and refashioned .
the player was dripping with an uncanny perspiration and twisted like a monkey , always looking frantically at the curtained window .
I entered into a series of elaborate precautions .
on the right the black gash of the river gorge clove the panorama ; abandoned factories and railway station clinging barnacle like to its sides .
vague legends of bad luck clustered around them , and my great grandmother &apos;s French governess had said they ought not to be worn in New England , though it would be quite safe to wear them in Europe .
what fool on a bleak shore , seeing a flowery isle on the other side with his lost love beckoning to him from it would pause because the wave is dark and turbid ?
the Terrible Old Man wheezed a tale that his father had told him , of lightning that shot one night up from that peaked cottage to the clouds of higher heaven ; and Granny Orne , whose tiny gambrel roofed abode in Ship Street is all covered with moss and ivy , croaked over something her grandmother had heard at second hand , about shapes that flapped out of the eastern mists straight into the narrow single door of that unreachable place for the door is set close to the edge of the crag toward the ocean , and glimpsed only from ships at sea .
there was an iciness , a sinking , a sickening of the heart an unredeemed dreariness of thought which no goading of the imagination could torture into aught of the sublime .
his hair , a dirty white and falling out in patches , was never combed ; and over his lean face grew a mangy stubble of coarse beard which seemed always to remain at the bristling stage never shaven yet never long enough to form a respectable set of whiskers .
he said , &quot; It is new , indeed , for I made it last night in a dream of strange cities ; and dreams are older than brooding Tyre , or the contemplative Sphinx , or garden girdled Babylon . &quot;
his temperature , oddly enough , was not greatly above normal ; but his whole condition was otherwise such as to suggest true fever rather than mental disorder .
what revolution of fortune could have brought her to England , and housed her thus ?
even as the destructive flames were ready to break forth , I saw them shrink back ; allayed by the absence of the military , by the aversion entertained by every one to any violence , save that of speech , and by the cordial politeness and even friendship of the hostile leaders when they met in private society .
why don &apos;t you move , then ?
the vaults are insufferably damp .
&quot; soon after this the young man returned , bearing on his shoulders a load of wood .
the whole box being thus apparently disclosed to the scrutiny of the company , Maelzel , still leaving the doors and drawer open , rolls the Automaton entirely round , and exposes the back of the Turk by lifting up the drapery .
he is a busy body , with much of romance and little of wit .
after some delay , occasioned by a fruitless attempt to procure admission in the usual manner , the gateway was broken in with a crowbar , and eight or ten of the neighbors entered accompanied by two gendarmes .
I showed them his treasures , secure , undisturbed .
I was amused at the childish fondness of this ignorant old man for the pictures in a book he could not read , and wondered how much better he could read the few books in English which adorned the room .
I had already planned the situation where I would live .
old Castro remembered bits of hideous legend that paled the speculations of theosophists and made man and the world seem recent and transient indeed .
in conclusion , he fell flat and heavily upon the deck .
he lay in that blessed calm which convalescence always induces , enjoying in secure tranquillity his liberty and re union with her whom he adored .
it is probable that the police , as well as myself , examined the back of the tenement ; but , if so , in looking at these ferrades in the line of their breadth as they must have done , they did not perceive this great breadth itself , or , at all events , failed to take it into due consideration .
cobwebs in a profusion never before seen by me were spun everywhere , and huge bats flapped their bony and uncanny wings on all sides of the otherwise untenanted gloom .
as we hastened from that abhorrent spot , the stolen amulet in St. John &apos;s pocket , we thought we saw the bats descend in a body to the earth we had so lately rifled , as if seeking for some cursed and unholy nourishment .
she was his monitress as he learned what were the true ends of life .
we nerved ourselves to the task : &quot; in the midst of despair we performed the tasks of hope . &quot;
I try in vain to be persuaded that the pole is the seat of frost and desolation ; it ever presents itself to my imagination as the region of beauty and delight .
&quot; my dearest girl &quot; &quot; And what is there so strange in my design ?
it came again , and louder .
an &apos; the dogs was all barkin &apos; an &apos; whinin &apos; awful .
how dear to me were the waters , and mountains , and woods of Loch Lomond now that I had so beloved a companion for my rambles .
remorse extinguished every hope .
but the truth of a vitally important fact soon makes its way into the understanding of even the most stolid .
with him all things and feelings had fixed dimensions , properties , causes , and effects ; and although he vaguely knew that the mind sometimes holds visions and sensations of far less geometrical , classifiable , and workable nature , he believed himself justified in drawing an arbitrary line and ruling out of court all that cannot be experienced and understood by the average citizen .
not a dead branch not a withered leaf not a stray pebble not a patch of the brown earth was anywhere visible .
&quot; and I go to day , &quot; I cried ; &quot; this very hour I will engage a sailing balloon ; I shall be there in forty eight hours at furthest , perhaps in less , if the wind is fair .
by the aid of these , of pearl powder , of rouge , of false hair , false teeth , and false tournure , as well as of the most skilful modistes of Paris , she contrived to hold a respectable footing among the beauties en peu passees of the French metropolis .
it thus happened that he found himself the cynosure of the political eyes ; and the cases were not few in which attempt was made to engage his services at the Prefecture .
some curious effects of these arts and discoveries I now purpose to shew you , under the strictest secrecy ; and I believe I may rely on my judgment of men enough to have no distrust of either your interest or your fidelity . &quot;
it might have been , too , that in these eyes of my beloved lay the secret to which Lord Verulam alludes .
but it was the talk of Sir Wade , especially when in his cups , which chiefly led his friends to deem him mad .
the organs of man are adapted to his rudimental condition , and to that only ; his ultimate condition , being unorganized , is of unlimited comprehension in all points but one the nature of the volition of God that is to say , the motion of the unparticled matter .
it now occurred to me that I suffered great uneasiness in the joint of my left ankle , and a dim consciousness of my situation began to glimmer through my mind .
there were , besides , great formless heaps of books on the floor and in crude bins ; and it was in one of these heaps that I found the thing .
but few of them were visible , and these ten times larger as well as I could judge than they seem to the inhabitants of the earth .
methought he stood at the foot of the couch , drew aside the curtains , and , in the hollow , detestable tones of a rum puncheon , menaced me with the bitterest vengeance for the contempt with which I had treated him .
about the middle of October , , there occurred , however , a day of remarkable chilliness .
there came a light tap at the library door and , pale as the tenant of a tomb , a menial entered upon tiptoe .
no trials , or even definite charges , were reported ; nor were any of the captives seen thereafter in the regular gaols of the nation .
here , amid the luxuriant and shadowing groves , in the gray gloom of a sweet midsummer evening , I observed my opportunity and accosted her .
now , in the light of that low moon which cast long weird shadows , it struck me forcibly that the various points and lines of the mound system had a peculiar relation to the summit of Tempest Mountain .
what I will do is to relate the most horrible circumstance I ever encountered , and leave it to you to judge whether or not this forms a suitable explanation of my peculiarity .
&quot; this is only part of a system : a scheme of tyranny to which I will never submit .
in September I entered Oberlin for my final year , and from then till the next June was busy with studies and other wholesome activities reminded of the bygone terror only by occasional official visits from government men in connexion with the campaign which my pleas and evidence had started .
I broke and reached him a flagon of De Grâve .
when the world was in its infancy death must have been terrible , and man left his friends and kindred to dwell , a solitary stranger , in an unknown country .
you thought of the poor cobbler &apos;s immolation .
I entered with soothing awe the lighted chancel , and listened to the solemn religious chaunt , which spoke peace and hope to the unhappy .
the public first learned of it in February , when a vast series of raids and Arrests occurred , followed by the deliberate burning and dynamiting under suitable precautions of an enormous number of crumbling , worm eaten , and supposedly empty houses along the abandoned waterfront .
no sooner had I entered the water than this bird took it into its head to fly away with the most indispensable portion of my apparel .
your hours were devoted to our benefit , your ambition was to obtain our commendation .
I know him , however , as both mathematician and poet , and my measures were adapted to his capacity , with reference to the circumstances by which he was surrounded .
of those tones and accents I hesitate to speak ; of their quality I will not speak ; but I may say that they presented certain uncanny differences in vocabulary , pronunciation , and mode of utterance .
that my uncle was excited by the tale of the sculptor I did not wonder , for what thoughts must arise upon hearing , after a knowledge of what Legrasse had learned of the cult , of a sensitive young man who had dreamed not only the figure and exact hieroglyphics of the swamp found image and the Greenland devil tablet , but had come in his dreams upon at least three of the precise words of the formula uttered alike by Esquimau diabolists and mongrel Louisianans ?
Tillinghast had once been the prey of failure , solitary and melancholy ; but now I knew , with nauseating fears of my own , that he was the prey of success .
I took from their sconces two flambeaux , and giving one to Fortunato , bowed him through several suites of rooms to the archway that led into the vaults .
as for a plan of action Gilman had better move down to Elwood &apos;s room and avoid sleeping alone .
by one of those caprices of the mind which we are perhaps most subject to in early youth , I at once gave up my former occupations , set down natural history and all its progeny as a deformed and abortive creation , and entertained the greatest disdain for a would be science which could never even step within the threshold of real knowledge .
they were very graceful novels , in which he urbanely laughed at the dreams he lightly sketched ; but he saw that their sophistication had sapped all their life away .
I remember that walk .
its weight will be but a trifle it is nothing mere nothing .
its windows glistened in the moonshine , and its heavy outline lay in a dark mass against the sky the trees near us waved a solemn dirge to the midnight breeze .
even the ghost of friendship has departed , and love &quot; He broke off ; nor could I guess whether the disdain that curled his lip was directed against the passion , or against himself for being its slave .
I shut up , as well as I could , in my own heart the anxiety that preyed there and entered with seeming earnestness into the plans of my father , although they might only serve as the decorations of my tragedy .
in another instant everything was blotted out by a merciful fit of fainting ; the first I had ever had .
from such ravings as these , he would suddenly become collected , and with unexaggerated but terrific words , paint the horrors of the time ; describe with minute detail , the effects of the plague on the human frame , and tell heart breaking tales of the snapping of dear affinities the gasping horror of despair over the death bed of the last beloved so that groans and even shrieks burst from the crowd .
I would not have any one suspect , or she might be roused to resistance , and perhaps escape .
I tell ye I know what them things be I seen &apos; em one night when . . .
my affections are wounded ; it is impossible to heal them : cease then the vain endeavour , if indeed that way your endeavours tend .
Dr. Armitage , associating what he was reading with what he had heard of Dunwich and its brooding presences , and of Wilbur Whateley and his dim , hideous aura that stretched from a dubious birth to a cloud of probable matricide , felt a wave of fright as tangible as a draught of the tomb &apos;s cold clamminess .
one thing had uttered a nerve shattering scream ; another had risen violently , beaten us both to unconsciousness , and run amuck in a shocking way before it could be placed behind asylum bars ; still another , a loathsome African monstrosity , had clawed out of its shallow grave and done a deed West had had to shoot that object .
these were , indeed , the ne plus ultra of good legs .
the ground outside was a singular mass of mud and pools , with fresh heaps of earth from the slight landslide ; but I saw nothing to justify the interest which kept my companion silently leaning out the window .
I reached down and hauled the contents out of the grave , and then both toiled hard to restore the spot to its former appearance .
from the southern extreme of the lake issued a continuation of the rivulet , which , after meandering for , perhaps , thirty yards , finally passed through the &quot; depression &quot; already described in the middle of the southern declivity , and tumbling down a sheer precipice of a hundred feet , made its devious and unnoticed way to the Hudson .
these were some of Woodville &apos;s last lessons .
I slaked my thirst at the brook , and then lying down , was overcome by sleep .
she knew that she was the cause of her husband &apos;s utter ruin ; and she strung herself to bear the consequences .
in the next instant , confessing the power of the wine , he threw himself at full length upon an ottoman .
ah While we love , while we are true to each other , here in this land of peace and beauty , your native country , we may reap every tranquil blessing what can disturb our peace ? &quot;
results were very curious .
the wall was now nearly upon a level with my breast .
so for Aira shall we seek , though it were well to visit distant and lute blessed Oonai across the Karthian hills , which may indeed be Aira , though I think not .
they had left to us , as an easier task , to give new names and arrange in connected classifications the facts which they in a great degree had been the instruments of bringing to light .
his sons had formerly conducted the office in the square , but latterly they had been keeping out of sight a good deal and leaving the brunt of affairs to the younger generation .
frequently he consulted his watch , and wondered at the delay .
strange , indeed , was her rapid increase in bodily size , but terrible , oh terrible were the tumultuous thoughts which crowded upon me while watching the development of her mental being .
I cannot conclude these details of some very singular passages in a life at all times sufficiently eventful , without again recalling to the attention of the reader the merits of that indiscriminate philosophy which is a sure and ready shield against those shafts of calamity which can neither be seen , felt nor fully understood .
I read no &quot; Night thoughts &quot; no fustian about churchyards no Bugaboo tales such as this .
beside the road at its crest a still higher summit rose , bleak and windswept , and I saw that it was a burying ground where black gravestones stuck ghoulishly through the snow like the decayed fingernails of a gigantic corpse .
but be assured that the specimen before us appertains to the very simplest species of cryptograph .
by this divide , the moon &apos;s real distance , and we have five miles and five sevenths , as the apparent distance .
before I knew it I was uttering frenzied and disjointed words to myself : &quot; my God . . .
in the meantime a quieter yet even more spiritually poignant phase of the horror had been blackly unwinding itself behind the closed door of a shelf lined room in Arkham .
thus I began my systematic though half bewildered tour of Innsmouth &apos;s narrow , shadow blighted ways .
&quot; and what are we to think , &quot; I asked , &quot; of the article in Le Soleil ? &quot; &quot; that it is a vast pity its inditer was not born a parrot in which case he would have been the most illustrious parrot of his race .
Mr. Boswell , a little teazing Fellow whom I had known for some Time previously , us &apos;d to make sport of my aukward manners and old fashion &apos;d Wig and cloaths .
every now and then he applied his stethoscope to the specimen , and bore the negative results philosophically .
&quot; it was late when I reached home , and I went immediately to bed .
in a few minutes after , I heard the creaking of my door , as if some one endeavoured to open it softly .
also , an attempt had been made to disturb a new grave in the potter &apos;s field , as if by futile and spadeless clawing at the earth .
chase away your idle fears ; to you alone do I consecrate my life and my endeavours for contentment .
the human creatures around me excited in me no sympathy and I thought that the mighty change that the death of your mother had wrought within me had rendered me callous to any future impression .
I would never die , but would live with those who had lived since before man ever walked the earth .
it was about five in the morning when I entered my father &apos;s house .
how unwise had the wanderers been , who had deserted its shelter , entangled themselves in the web of society , and entered on what men of the world call &quot; life , &quot; that labyrinth of evil , that scheme of mutual torture .
there was Æstheticus Ethix .
in their place he sent for labourers from the north , and when the servants left he replaced them likewise .
I neither spoke nor looked at anyone , but sat motionless , bewildered by the multitude of miseries that overcame me .
a harp was sent for that my playing might not interfere with hers , and I began : she found me a docile and when I had conquered the first rudiments a very apt scholar .
&quot; oh , yes , &quot; he replied , coloring violently , &quot; I got it from him the next morning .
in the mean time I can give you some idea of the shape . &quot;
he took the spiky image down to Elwood &apos;s room , steeling himself against the whines of the loomfixer which welled up from the ground floor .
had Plato but hit upon this , he would have been spared the affront of the picked chicken .
I abandoned the arm of Pompey , and , without his assistance , surmounted the one remaining step , and gained the chamber of the belfry .
no , he had not seen that thing before and did not know anything about it .
I followed it up ; stepping with all the careful distrust with which certain antique narratives had inspired me .
our conversations are not always confined to his own history and misfortunes .
beloved friend , this ill world was no clime for your gentle spirit ; you delivered up its governance to false humanity , which stript it of its leaves ere winter time , and laid bare its quivering life to the evil ministration of roughest winds .
whatever was down there in the glen was biding its time , and Armitage told his colleagues it would be suicidal to try to attack it in the dark .
I do not yet know whether I was answered or not , for no sound came from the well shaped mouth ; but I do know that at that moment I firmly thought the thin lips moved silently , forming syllables I would have vocalised as &quot; only now &quot; if that phrase had possessed any sense or relevancy .
&quot; good God &quot; I whispered , &quot; can you do that for any time ? &quot;
east and north it rose thousands of feet vertically from the water , so only the western side , inland and toward Arkham , remained .
an apathetic endurance of dull pain .
from the haughty and unbending nature of the Countess of Windsor , Idris had few tender filial associations with her .
yet at the idea that the fiend should live and be triumphant , my rage and vengeance returned , and like a mighty tide , overwhelmed every other feeling .
you will perceive by these manuscripts , &quot; here the speaker produced a note book in which several pages appeared to have been freshly written , &quot; that at the very period in which you fancied these things amid the hills , I was engaged in detailing them upon paper here at home . &quot;
we came at length to an elevated table land of wonderful fertility and beauty , affording a panoramic prospect very little less in extent than that of Aetna , and , in Ellison &apos;s opinion as well as my own , surpassing the far famed view from that mountain in all the true elements of the picturesque .
it shall not find me .
the unparticled matter , or God , in quiescence , is as nearly as we can conceive it what men call mind .
nothing , at least , was done beyond eating and drinking and making merry .
there was in this singular caravan a little boy with no father or mother , but only a tiny black kitten to cherish .
if I should be engaged , I will at least make notes .
people did not seem to notice his glances , but they noticed my fear ; and after his disappearance used that as a basis for some absurd suspicions .
what he stated was , in substance , this .
could it be possible that he was taking leave of his senses ?
on either side the bands threw down their arms , even the veterans wept , and our party held out their hands to their foes , while a gush of love and deepest amity filled every heart .
Jugs , pitchers , and carboys mingled promiscuously in the melee , and wicker flagons encountered desperately with bottles of junk .
the universe was to him a dwelling , to inhabit with his chosen one ; and not either a scheme of society or an enchainment of events , that could impart to him either happiness or misery .
having thus designated the spot whither the move should have been made , the arm returns to its cushion , and Maelzel performs the evolution which the Automaton pointed out .
it always seems to me like an immense bird of prey about to pounce upon us and carry us off in its claws .
the more I analysed the less I believed , and against my newly opened mind there began to beat grotesque and horrible analogies based on superficial aspects and upon my experience beneath the earth .
the most of boys run away from home at ten or twelve years of age , but I waited till I was sixteen .
her mind was divided between boundless admiration for her husband , and tender anxiety for her children she waited on him , worked for them , and never complained , though care rendered her life one long drawn , melancholy dream .
the gods are greater than men , and they have conquered . &quot;
I verily believe that his last moments would have been rendered wretched , could he have suspected that his wishes in regard to burning this &apos; Diary &apos; full of crude speculations would have been unattended to ; as , it seems , they were .
through this dank and gloomy wood we rode some two miles , when the Maison de Sante came in view .
I have felt it in the glances of unusually aged people .
cold by no means so intense .
to night I wear this dear eye glass , as an eye glass , and upon my heart ; but with the earliest dawn of that morning which gives me the pleasure of calling you wife , I will place it upon my upon my nose , and there wear it ever afterward , in the less romantic , and less fashionable , but certainly in the more serviceable , form which you desire . &quot;
she allowed herself one luxury , she saw the newspapers every day , and feasted on the praise and actions of the Protector .
do not mistake me ; I never was really mad .
the thought was madness ; it stirred the fiend within me not I , but she , shall suffer ; the murder I have committed because I am forever robbed of all that she could give me , she shall atone .
plague came , threatening to destroy at once the aim of the ambitious and the hopes of love .
and for this one exception , to what did it amount ?
perhaps this tendency toward wildness had been stimulated somewhat by the repression to which he had been subjected at home ; for Mrs. Trever had particular reason for training her only child with rigid severity .
and the tall primeval trees rock eternally hither and thither with a crashing and mighty sound .
Arthur Jermyn waited very patiently for the expected box from M. Verhaeren , meanwhile studying with increased diligence the manuscripts left by his mad ancestor .
certainly , there was strange talk one night in when the childless , broken old man was buried in the crypt behind his own house in sight of the blank slate slab .
I lifted her up in my arms ; her light form rested on my breast .
what think you , &quot; said he , turning abruptly as he spoke &quot; what think you of this Madonna della Pieta ? &quot; &quot; it is Guido &apos;s own &quot; I said , with all the enthusiasm of my nature , for I had been poring intently over its surpassing loveliness .
those waves will open up to us many vistas unknown to man , and several unknown to anything we consider organic life .
the sea was rather rough , so we descended to a depth where the waves were less troublesome .
the astonished negro opened his eyes and mouth to the fullest extent , let fall the spades , and fell upon his knees .
then they looked down the hill .
since the pursuit was down another street , it was plain that the party was not following me directly .
we now watched this youthful congregation with redoubled interest .
the pause was momentary .
a fiendish rage animated him as he said this ; his face was wrinkled into contortions too horrible for human eyes to behold ; but presently he calmed himself and proceeded &quot; I intended to reason .
this patient , it is recorded , was doing well and seemed to be in a fair way of ultimate recovery , but fell a victim to the quackeries of medical experiment .
suddenly I heard a splash in the sea .
this sight had an instantaneous effect on Raymond ; his eyes beamed with tenderness , and remorse clothed his manners with earnestness and truth .
suddenly in the midst of his harangue he broke off , as if stung by some painful thought ; he rose uneasily , and I perceived him at length quit the hall , and through the long corridor seek the open air .
by necessity practical and by philosophy stern , these folk were not beautiful in their sins .
the awful squid head with writhing feelers came nearly up to the bowsprit of the sturdy yacht , but Johansen drove on relentlessly .
I have never seen another street as narrow and steep as the Rue d &apos;Auseil .
met Gruff shortly afterward , blind drunk .
by few , I mean , few who , like you and me , have had , at the same time , the advantages of a modern education .
but strangest of all were his eyes ; twin caves of abysmal blackness , profound in expression of understanding , yet inhuman in degree of wickedness .
with a heavy heart I returned to my boudoir there to ponder upon some method of eluding my wife &apos;s penetration , until I could make arrangements prior to my leaving the country , for to this I had already made up my mind .
in this phantasy of prismatic distortion it moved anomalously in a diagonal way , so that all the rules of matter and perspective seemed upset .
what fiend more wanton in his mischief , what damned soul more worthy of perdition But he was not reserved for this agony of self reproach .
awhile , because you are gifted with agility and strength , you fancy that you live : but frail is the &quot; bower of flesh &quot; that encaskets life ; dissoluble the silver cord than binds you to it .
&quot; it is too late to be ambitious , &quot; says Sir Thomas Browne .
there was the same candour , the same vivacity , but it was allied to an expression more full of sensibility and intellect .
I detailed the incidents of my sojourn abroad , and then questioned her as to the changes that had taken place at home , the causes of Adrian &apos;s absence , and her secluded life .
when I awaked , I was safe in my bunk and the red glow of dawn was visible at the window .
dogs howled from the distance , green grass and foliage wilted to a curious , sickly yellow grey , and over field and forest were scattered the bodies of dead whippoorwills .
Evadne required another engagement on his part , that he would not without her concurrence enter into any project for her benefit , nor himself offer relief .
I shuddered , and made a motion as if to climb out of the hole , which was now as deep as my neck .
&quot; I gazed on my victim , and my heart swelled with exultation and hellish triumph ; clapping my hands , I exclaimed , &apos; I too can create desolation ; my enemy is not invulnerable ; this death will carry despair to him , and a thousand other miseries shall torment and destroy him.&apos;
I afterwards hired a mule , as the more sure footed and least liable to receive injury on these rugged roads .
this mistake may , however , be corrected by observing the Chess Player when , as is sometimes the case , the exhibiter approaches it .
they , like the subject and material , belonged to something horribly remote and distinct from mankind as we know it ; something frightfully suggestive of old and unhallowed cycles of life in which our world and our conceptions have no part .
but at the same moment a pass key sounded in the next door to the north , and I knew that a nearer peril was at hand .
at length , satisfied with the true secret of its effect , I fell back within the bed .
I am led to attribute these frequent escapes to the only natural cause which can account for such effect .
upon my entrance , Usher arose from a sofa on which he had been lying at full length , and greeted me with a vivacious warmth which had much in it , I at first thought , of an overdone cordiality of the constrained effort of the ennuyé man of the world .
formerly she had been a light hearted infant , fanciful , but gay and childish .
a single row of brass cannon protruded from her open ports , and dashed from their polished surfaces the fires of innumerable battle lanterns , which swung to and fro about her rigging .
Idris passionately loved her brother , and could ill brook an absence whose duration was uncertain ; his society was dear and necessary to me I had followed up my chosen literary occupations with delight under his tutorship and assistance ; his mild philosophy , unerring reason , and enthusiastic friendship were the best ingredient , the exalted spirit of our circle ; even the children bitterly regretted the loss of their kind playfellow .
Wilbur was four and a half then , and looked like a lad of fifteen .
its hateful splash renewed again and again to my sense the death of my sister ; its roar was a dirge ; in every dark hull that was tossed on its inconstant bosom , I imaged a bier , that would convey to death all who trusted to its treacherous smiles .
the silk of the parasol was strong , but the threads of it were run together within .
heat has been his mortal enemy .
it runs : &quot; Vondervotteimittis Vonder , lege Donder Votteimittis , quasi und Bleitziz Bleitziz obsol : pro Blitzen . &quot;
&quot; nothing more in the assassination way , I hope ? &quot; &quot; oh no ; nothing of that nature .
a new and burning curiosity grew in me , compared to which my boyish curiosity was feeble and inchoate .
it was a very peculiar phenomenon , and was plainly marked by all .
just before sinking within the turgid sea , its central fires suddenly went out , as if hurriedly extinguished by some unaccountable power .
this corpse is found , bearing marks of violence , and floating in the river .
you are forbidden to write to hold a pen ; yet one word from you , dear Victor , is necessary to calm our apprehensions .
but although They no longer lived , They would never really die .
that which I occupied had no bedding of any kind .
from the innumerable images of gloom which thus oppressed me in dreams , I select for record but a solitary vision .
and above the mists on Hatheg Kla earth &apos;s gods sometimes dance reminiscently ; for they know they are safe , and love to come from unknown Kadath in ships of cloud and play in the olden way , as they did when earth was new and men not given to the climbing of inaccessible places .
as for business the abundance of fish was certainly almost uncanny , but the natives were taking less and less advantage of it .
&quot; the pole of the earth will coincide with the pole of the ecliptic , &quot; continued the astronomer , &quot; an universal spring will be produced , and earth become a paradise . &quot;
every thing had been heaped in promiscuously .
now get th &apos; hell outa here afore I kick hell outa ya . &quot;
again ? &quot; then they all turned and fled frantically .
&quot; that &apos;s all not a saound nor squeak over the &apos; phone arter that .
but , suddenly these strains diminished in distinctness and in volume .
not that I cared much about the matter .
indeed upon any theme of the most admired , because simply the most abstruse of the boasted erudition of the academy , have I ever found Ligeia at fault ?
the recruits , aroused by the bustle , could not exactly comprehend the merits of the transaction .
the right arm , as before , obeyed the direction of my hand .
by degrees he warmed ; his words flowed with ease , his language was full of vigour , and his voice of persuasion .
so , happier than I had ever dared hoped to be , I dissolved again into that native infinity of crystal oblivion from which the daemon Life had called me for one brief and desolate hour .
in ninety nine cases from the hundred I would abide by its decision .
it had been a sturdy and apparently unimaginative youth of wholesome plebeian type large framed , grey eyed , and brown haired a sound animal without psychological subtleties , and probably having vital processes of the simplest and healthiest sort .
the labours I endured were no longer to be alleviated by the bright sun or gentle breezes of spring ; all joy was but a mockery which insulted my desolate state and made me feel more painfully that I was not made for the enjoyment of pleasure .
two days passed in this manner before he was able to speak , and I often feared that his sufferings had deprived him of understanding .
a folding couch now filled its diurnal role of sofa , and the mahogany furniture , sumptuous hangings , old paintings , and mellow bookshelves all bespoke a gentleman &apos;s study rather than a boarding house bedroom .
that the age of the husband , should surpass by a few years even by fifteen or twenty the age of the wife , was regarded by the world as admissible , and , indeed , as even proper , but she had always entertained the belief that the years of the wife should never exceed in number those of the husband .
here the speaker , very rudely , as I thought , put his right thumb in his left cheek , withdrew it with a sound resembling the popping of a cork , and then , by a dexterous movement of the tongue upon the teeth , created a sharp hissing and fizzing , which lasted for several minutes , in imitation of the frothing of champagne .
he then related that , the morning on which the murder of poor William had been discovered , Justine had been taken ill , and confined to her bed for several days .
from then on I walked in a fantastic dream of unknown and half known shapes ; and with each new gateway crossed , the less plainly could I recognise the things of the narrow sphere to which I had so long been bound .
he contrived to bear , however , among a particular set at the university , a reputation for deep metaphysical thinking , and , I believe , for some logical talent .
it was a most beautiful season ; never did the fields bestow a more plentiful harvest or the vines yield a more luxuriant vintage , but my eyes were insensible to the charms of nature .
I received it with a repugnance which gained strength as I grew in years .
such individuals float even after drowning .
he wanted to warn the gentleman about that glow , for everybody in Arkham knew it was Keziah &apos;s witch light which played near Brown Jenkin and the ghost of the old crone herself .
I myself seemed to wear a common toga , and to have no especially distinguishing characteristic .
crowds of emigrants inundated the west of Europe ; and our island had become the refuge of thousands .
naturally I don &apos;t tell those cursed old maids at the club with Reid , damn him , whispering even as it is that I &apos;m a sort of monster bound down the toboggan of reverse evolution .
a thousand tales were rife , explanatory of the Countess of Windsor &apos;s conduct ; none true probably ; but each day it became more certain that we should have the noble scion of the late regal house of England among us .
this uncle had resembled her , and I had never liked him either .
there was no animal or vegetable phosphorescence about , and the city that sloped down to the river was invisible in blackness .
my life was very peaceful .
these maps have not been modern maps alone , for I know that names change .
I am above the weakness of seeking to establish a sequence of cause and effect , between the disaster and the atrocity .
methought the time was now arrived , when , childish occupations laid aside , I should enter into life .
indeed , this medium I could not suppose confined to the path of the comet &apos;s ellipse , or to the immediate neighborhood of the sun .
this was to be the colour ; love and confidence the substance of our existence .
were not death more pleasing ? &quot;
although one of its corners had been , by some accident , destroyed , it could be seen that the original form was oblong .
above the session room of the Council is the steeple , and in the steeple is the belfry , where exists , and has existed time out of mind , the pride and wonder of the village the great clock of the borough of Vondervotteimittiss .
my ideas were enlarged by his conversation .
I propose , therefore , in the present paper , which I had some idea of calling &quot; Memoranda to serve for the Literary History of America , &quot; to give a detail of those important , yet feeble and tottering first steps , by which , at length , I attained the high road to the pinnacle of human renown .
never met any persons in the house when she called for the clothes or took them home .
the wildness and supernatural machinery of Macbeth , was a pledge that it could contain little directly connected with our present circumstances .
but why this necessity ?
there was a suggestion of queerly disordered pictures superimposed one upon another ; an arrangement in which the essentials of time as well as of space seemed dissolved and mixed in the most illogical fashion .
can any man be to me as Clerval was , or any woman another Elizabeth ?
intellectual activity , though not directed towards books , had always been my sister &apos;s characteristic .
some conversation took place between him and his father , and the young stranger knelt at the old man &apos;s feet and would have kissed his hand , but he raised her and embraced her affectionately .
think , too , how great must have been that strength which could have thrust the body up such an aperture so forcibly that the united vigor of several persons was found barely sufficient to drag it down &quot; Turn , now , to other indications of the employment of a vigor most marvellous .
the charge , heavier perhaps than had been estimated , had seemed to shake the entire mountain .
her shoes of pink leather are fastened each with a bunch of yellow ribbons puckered up in the shape of a cabbage .
after all , though , little useful data could be gained from him ; since his stories were all insane , incomplete hints of impossible marvels and horrors which could have no source save in his own disordered fancy .
P. How do you think your present illness will result ?
with my mind fully occupied by these ideas , I might be said as if fascinated , to haunt the destined abode of the young Earl .
we buried our materials in a dense strip of woods between the house and the potter &apos;s field .
she was senseless , and I endeavoured by every means in my power to restore animation , when I was suddenly interrupted by the approach of a rustic , who was probably the person from whom she had playfully fled .
West , in reality , was more afraid than I ; for his abominable pursuits entailed a life of furtiveness and dread of every shadow .
she would doubly sorrow over the strange link that enchains me to her , making my spirit obey her dying voice , following her , as it is about to do , to the unknown country . &quot;
how can I describe my emotions at this catastrophe , or how delineate the wretch whom with such infinite pains and care I had endeavoured to form ?
it was found around her neck , fitting loosely , and secured with a hard knot .
she was thinner and had lost much of that heavenly vivacity that had before charmed me ; but her gentleness and soft looks of compassion made her a more fit companion for one blasted and miserable as I was .
the path , as you ascend higher , is intersected by ravines of snow , down which stones continually roll from above ; one of them is particularly dangerous , as the slightest sound , such as even speaking in a loud voice , produces a concussion of air sufficient to draw destruction upon the head of the speaker .
you say that divested of the body man will be God ?
you can get him in the morning .
moreover , prices were falling and competition was growing .
you say that man will never put off the body ?
all human operations were suspended .
the paving stones , loosened from their beds , lay in wild disorder amid the tall , rank grass , which sprang up around the feet and ankles .
I will pause a few moments , wipe my dim eyes , and endeavour to lose the present obscure but heavy feeling of unhappiness in the more acute emotions of the past .
agitation of spirit kept me awake for many long hours ; but at length I again slumbered .
but now crime has degraded me beneath the meanest animal .
the papers read every Saturday evening were characterized less by depth than buffoonery .
kings have been called the fathers of their people .
&quot; can you wonder that such thoughts transported me with rage ?
a new sense a new entity is added to my soul .
yet there are no towers in the land more time honored than my gloomy , gray , hereditary halls .
you may render me the most miserable of men , but you shall never make me base in my own eyes .
&quot; o , I shall be something now From my birth I have aspired like the eagle but , unlike the eagle , my wings have failed , and my vision has been blinded .
along the eastern and western cliffs where , toward the upper portion of the amphitheatre , the boundaries were more or less precipitous grew ivy in great profusion so that only here and there could even a glimpse of the naked rock be obtained .
farewell to the patriotic scene , to the love of liberty and well earned meed of virtuous aspiration farewell to crowded Senate , vocal with the councils of the wise , whose laws were keener than the sword blade tempered at Damascus farewell to kingly pomp and warlike pageantry ; the crowns are in the dust , and the wearers are in their graves farewell to the desire of rule , and the hope of victory ; to high vaulting ambition , to the appetite for praise , and the craving for the suffrage of their fellows The nations are no longer No Senate sits in council for the dead ; no scion of a time honoured dynasty pants to rule over the inhabitants of a charnel house ; the general &apos;s hand is cold , and the soldier has his untimely grave dug in his native fields , unhonoured , though in youth .
something very strange and terrible has happened to you , but it didn &apos;t get far enough to hurt your mind and personality .
the affair made us rather nervous , especially the stiff form and vacant face of our first trophy , but we managed to remove all traces of our visit .
the vengeance of the infinite abysses . . .
I fed it with a few crumbs from a biscuit ; by degrees it revived ; its warm fluttering heart beat against me ; I cannot tell why I detail this trifling incident but the scene is still before me ; the snow clad fields seen through the silvered trunks of the beeches , the brook , in days of happiness alive with sparkling waters , now choked by ice the leafless trees fantastically dressed in hoar frost the shapes of summer leaves imaged by winter &apos;s frozen hand on the hard ground the dusky sky , drear cold , and unbroken silence while close in my bosom , my feathered nursling lay warm , and safe , speaking its content with a light chirp painful reflections thronged , stirring my brain with wild commotion cold and death like as the snowy fields was all earth misery stricken the life tide of the inhabitants why should I oppose the cataract of destruction that swept us away ?
in the beginning of time , when , as now , man lived by families , and not by tribes or nations , they were placed in a genial clime , where earth fed them untilled , and the balmy air enwrapt their reposing limbs with warmth more pleasant than beds of down .
I was angry , impatient , miserable ; my only happy hours were those during which I devised schemes of revenge ; these were perfected in my forced solitude , so that during the whole of the following season , and I was freed early in September , I never failed to provide excellent and plenteous fare for myself and my comrades .
I say to my astonishment .
indeed , within the walls of the Castle we had a colony of the unhappy , deserted by their relatives , and in themselves helpless , sufficient to occupy her time and attention , while ceaseless anxiety for my welfare and the health of her children , however she strove to curb or conceal it , absorbed all her thoughts , and undermined the vital principle .
that charge was revived only when about of the estimated population were found missing from the dead ; and even then it was hard to explain the murder of fifty by half that number .
from this period until the close of last week an interval of nearly seven months we continued to make daily calls at M. Valdemar &apos;s house , accompanied , now and then , by medical and other friends .
lone and shaken mourned the humble courts and the lower walls , for upon the sumptuous greater peristyle had fallen squarely the heavy overhanging bough of the strange new tree , reducing the stately poem in marble with odd completeness to a mound of unsightly ruins .
I was dashed down from heaven to earth as a silly sparrow when pounced on by a hawk ; my eyes swam and my head was bewildered by the sudden apparition of grief .
I learned that the possessions most esteemed by your fellow creatures were high and unsullied descent united with riches .
I find it incumbent upon me to request , at your earliest convenience , an explanation of this evening &apos;s occurrences at your chambers .
down steadily down it crept .
&quot; before proceeding farther , let us consider the supposed scene of the assassination , in the thicket at the Barrière du Roule .
the enemy is already vanquished ; the pleasant places , the noble dwellings and spoil of the city are already yours ; force the gate ; enter and possess the seats of your ancestors , your own inheritance &quot; An universal shudder and fearful whispering passed through the lines ; not a soldier moved .
there was , he said , no public library or chamber of commerce in Innsmouth , but I could probably find my way about .
that he has actually realized , in spirit and in effect , if not to the letter , the old chimaera of the philosopher &apos;s stone , no sane person is at liberty to doubt .
Weakly rising , he gathered up the scribbled papers and sealed them all in a great envelope , which he immediately placed in his inside coat pocket .
he admitted but four unvarying laws , or rather elementary principles , of Bliss .
my little dog , too , was quite fat and up to all varieties of snuff .
the game , too , was my favorite ecarte The rest of the company , interested in the extent of our play , had abandoned their own cards , and were standing around us as spectators .
God knows he had cause , for as the echoes of my screaming died away there came another sound so hellishly suggestive that only numbed emotion kept me sane and conscious .
it proved to be a small pamphlet treatise on speculative Astronomy , written either by Professor Encke of Berlin or by a Frenchman of somewhat similar name .
but , in reality , this particular point , the shifting of the partitions , is of no consequence whatever .
we wept over the ruin of the boundless continents of the east , and the desolation of the western world ; while we fancied that the little channel between our island and the rest of the earth was to preserve us alive among the dead .
at every second step , he will find the growing charm dispelled by the voice and personal intrusion of some ruffian or party of carousing blackguards .
&quot; try the wood well , then , with your knife , and see if you think it very rotten . &quot;
when my sister saw me , she rose , and taking my hand , said , &quot; He is here , even at our wish ; this is Lionel , my brother . &quot;
and then the men of Tegea spoke of the goodness of Musides , and of his heavy grief for his friend ; and how not even the coming laurels of art could console him in the absence of Kalos , who might have worn those laurels instead .
I present the public with my latest discoveries in the slight Sibylline pages .
my father spent the greater part of his time with me ; he accompanied me in my walks , listened to my music , and leant over me as I read or painted .
the next day Lord Raymond called at Perdita &apos;s cottage , on his way to Windsor Castle .
but I was perfectly unacquainted with towns and large assemblages of men .
any disorder in the glueing any unusual gaping in the joints would have sufficed to insure detection . &quot;
as the carriage of Madame Lalande rolled by our group , I had observed that she recognized me ; and more than this , she had blessed me , by the most seraphic of all imaginable smiles , with no equivocal mark of the recognition .
nobody ever believed him , but the natives did not like him to drink and talk with strangers ; and it was not always safe to be seen questioning him .
he then told me that he would commence his narrative the next day when I should be at leisure .
it took less than a single day to change these hairs from a jetty black to white , to weaken my limbs , and to unstring my nerves , so that I tremble at the least exertion , and am frightened at a shadow .
in the next moment there was no doubt about the triumph ; no doubt that the solution had truly accomplished , at least temporarily , its full mission of restoring rational and articulate life to the dead .
the wind sometimes was not as strong as we thought it at starting , and then we made rather less way than we could wish , while the current rendered the smack unmanageable .
I understand not what you hinted to me , just now , of the modes or of the method of what , during mortality , we were accustomed to call creation .
he ripped up the gown sleeve , and says he found marks which satisfied him of the identity .
yes , he had been trying to comfort himself with these suppositions : but he had found all in vain .
then a rift seemed to open in the darkness before him , and he saw the city of the valley , glistening radiantly far , far below , with a background of sea and sky , and a snow capped mountain near the shore .
townsfolk would disappear just before these nights , and would never be heard of again .
so one day the young warriors , the slingers and the spearmen and the bowmen , marched against Ib and slew all the inhabitants thereof , pushing the queer bodies into the lake with long spears , because they did not wish to touch them .
he is the kin of the jungle &apos;s lords , and heir to the secrets of hoary and sinister Africa .
I resigned myself thereto with a feeling half stupid , half acrimonious .
true I feel no stupor none at all .
I now carefully replaced this head portion in the indentation whence I had taken it , and the resemblance to a perfect nail was complete the fissure was invisible .
the condition of her orphan children was peculiarly desolate .
surely the end was near ; for my bower was discovered , and the objective of my nocturnal journeys revealed .
free and in the grasp of the Inquisition I had scarcely stepped from my wooden bed of horror upon the stone floor of the prison , when the motion of the hellish machine ceased and I beheld it drawn up , by some invisible force , through the ceiling .
the two remained here for some time .
south Street was very wide , leading directly down a slight declivity to the waterfront and commanding a long view out at sea ; and I hoped that no one would be glancing up it from afar as I crossed in the bright moonlight .
now we call all these things matter , and embrace all matter in one general definition ; but in spite of this , there can be no two ideas more essentially distinct than that which we attach to a metal , and that which we attach to the luminiferous ether .
I was too well aware of the extent of his acquirements , and of the singular pleasure he took in concealing them from observation , to be astonished at any similar discovery ; but the place of date , I must confess , occasioned me no little amazement .
for a whole hour I did not move a muscle , and in the meantime I did not hear him lie down .
the Frenchwoman now long dead was very taciturn , and there were those who said she could have told more than she did .
for the sixth time they had all overslept , waking very slowly and dazedly , and acting as if they had not rested , although they were known to have gone early to bed the night before .
as to the stars , since there was no night where I was , they always had the same appearance ; not brilliant , as usual , but pale , and very nearly like the moon of a morning .
in one corner of the closet was a very small furnace , with a glowing fire in it , and on the fire a kind of duplicate crucible two crucibles connected by a tube .
from this , after some minutes , I was aroused by the voice of Pompey , who declared that he could stand it no longer , and requested that I would be so kind as to come down .
they have hinted at strange survivals in terms which would freeze the blood if not masked by a bland optimism .
hain &apos;t she tuld ye to keep nigh the place in the arternoon an &apos; git back afur dark ?
an old servant , who had nursed Idris in infancy , and who lived with us more on the footing of a revered relative than a domestic , had gone a few days before to visit a daughter , married , and settled in the neighbourhood of London .
sometimes the amphitheatres were flooded with water conveyed from the lake in mighty aqueducts , and then were enacted stirring sea fights , or combats betwixt swimmers and deadly marine things .
of course it was inevitable that Olney should mark the grey unvisited cottage in the sky , on that sinister northward crag which is one with the mists and the firmament .
&quot; I &apos;d like to see that house , Carter .
he spoke of fire , unity , and atoms ; Bi part and pre existent soul ; affinity and discord ; primitive intelligence and homöomeria .
with the years worse fortune came to The Street .
the moonbeams did not reach down here , but I could just see my way about without using the flashlight .
you assert , then , that the unparticled matter , in motion , is thought ?
they doffed their own shabby clothes , and made free with the family wardrobe and jewels .
I can answer them at once , he is at the Duke of Athol &apos;s seat at Dunkeld .
then it had lighted up window by window above the shimmering tides where lanterns nodded and glided and deep horns bayed weird harmonies , and itself become a starry firmament of dream , redolent of faery music , and one with the marvels of Carcassonne and Samarcand and El Dorado and all glorious and half fabulous cities .
lightning flashed aloft , and the wondering crowd looked in vain for the portents of storm .
a lady of ton has dropped , some where in the street , a diamond ring of very unusual value .
I rose and walked slowly to the window ; the wide heath was covered by snow which sparkled under the beams of the sun that shone brightly thro &apos; the pure , frosty air : a few birds were pecking some crumbs under my window .
all he could do was to whisper , &quot; The amulet that damned thing . &quot;
but I could not decypher them .
&quot; Pompey , you black rascal , &quot; squeaked the General , &quot; I really do believe you would let me go out without my palate . &quot;
it was a passage towards the end of the third act a passage of the most heart stirring excitement a passage which , although tainted with impurity , no man shall read without a thrill of novel emotion no woman without a sigh .
nobody had been caught , but among the scattering fugitives had been glimpsed a huge negro .
P. The metaphysicians maintain that all action is reducible to motion and thinking , and that the latter is the origin of the former .
under my good nurse &apos;s care I ran wild about our park and the neighbouring fields .
convinced of my psychological and nervous abnormality , I lighted some matches and poured a stiff dose of sodium bromide solution , which seemed to calm me to the extent of dispelling the illusion of sound .
pride made him recoil from complaint ; and gratitude and affection to Perdita , generally acted as an opiate to all desire , save that of meriting her love .
so far as she merely was concerned , she began to hope for defeat ; and it was only on his account that her feelings vacillated , as she heard him gallop into the court yard of the inn .
as it was , the lethal mustiness blended hideously with the town &apos;s general fishy odour and persistently focussed one &apos;s fancy on death and decay .
but this was only for a moment .
it was the technique , Eliot the cursed , the impious , the unnatural technique As I am a living being , I never elsewhere saw the actual breath of life so fused into a canvas .
the dwellings are as much alike inside as out , and the furniture is all upon one plan .
he had in part prevailed ; the Lord Protector consented to return to London for a few weeks ; during which time things should be so arranged , as to occasion less consternation at his departure .
they chatted they jested they laughed they perpetrated a thousand absurdities the fiddles shrieked the drum row de dowed the trombones bellowed like so many brazen bulls of Phalaris and the whole scene , growing gradually worse and worse , as the wines gained the ascendancy , became at length a sort of pandemonium in petto .
and this similitude was regarded as by no means lessened when , upon nearer inspection , there was perceived a large tassel depending from its apex , and , around the upper rim or base of the cone , a circle of little instruments , resembling sheep bells , which kept up a continual tinkling to the tune of Betty Martin .
doctors D and F were in attendance .
these diminutive barques should be prohibited from carrying more than a definite number of passengers .
however , my instructions will apply equally well to any variety of misadventure , and in your way home you may easily get knocked in the head , or run over by an omnibus , or bitten by a mad dog , or drowned in a gutter .
the fearful difference quickly increased with a low rumbling or moaning sound .
its aspect inspired me with absolute dread , and , checking my horse , I half resolved to turn back .
as summer flies are scattered by rain , so did this congregation , late noisy and happy , in sadness and melancholy murmurs break up , dwindling away apace .
no word was spoken amidst the distant sound that grew nearer and nearer , but as I followed the memory face &apos;s mad stare along that cursed shaft of light to its source , the source whence also the whining came , I too saw for an instant what it saw , and fell with ringing ears in that fit of shrieking and epilepsy which brought the lodgers and the police .
but he was silent and presently retired to his cabin .
needless to say , no cattle were allowed to remain in open pasturage .
I have much to say yet of the things which have been .
Raymond had a confused remembrance that he had seen such a form before ; he walked across the room ; she did not raise her eyes , merely asking in Romaic , who is there ?
the breeze , that had flagged since sunset , now rose again .
most of them were country people , come up for the sake of change ; the Londoners had sought the country .
this you alone can do , and I demand it of you as a right which you must not refuse to concede . &quot;
one figure , he said , seemed to be raising its hands above its head at rhythmic intervals ; and as Sawyer mentioned the circumstance the crowd seemed to hear a faint , half musical sound from the distance , as if a loud chant were accompanying the gestures .
my life had been before as a pleasing country rill , never destined to leave its native fields , but when its task was fulfilled quietly to be absorbed , and leave no trace .
some day he would call , when the stars were ready , and the secret cult would always be waiting to liberate him .
I afterward carefully examined my head , shaking it repeatedly , and feeling it with minute attention , until I succeeded in satisfying myself that it was not , as I had more than half suspected , larger than my balloon .
when it is flood , the stream runs up the country between Lofoden and Moskoe with a boisterous rapidity ; but the roar of its impetuous ebb to the sea is scarce equalled by the loudest and most dreadful cataracts ; the noise being heard several leagues off , and the vortices or pits are of such an extent and depth , that if a ship comes within its attraction , it is inevitably absorbed and carried down to the bottom , and there beat to pieces against the rocks ; and when the water relaxes , the fragments thereof are thrown up again .
closing our hatches , we awaited developments until we realised that we must either submerge or be swamped in the mounting waves .
but the Prince Prospero was happy and dauntless and sagacious .
why I did so I can hardly tell .
I thought that like another Cain , I had a mark set on my forehead to shew mankind that there was a barrier between me and they sic .
but some of us awake in the night with strange phantasms of enchanted hills and gardens , of fountains that sing in the sun , of golden cliffs overhanging murmuring seas , of plains that stretch down to sleeping cities of bronze and stone , and of shadowy companies of heroes that ride caparisoned white horses along the edges of thick forests ; and then we know that we have looked back through the ivory gates into that world of wonder which was ours before we were wise and unhappy .
&quot; I have been at the door of your chamber : every thing is silent .
but grass will grow , especially in warm and damp weather , such as was that of the period of the murder , as much as two or three inches in a single day .
they would do something to throw off the clinging evil , and , while in action , they fancied that a remedy was applied .
when I was seven years of age my nurse left me .
the happiness I enjoyed in the company of my father far exceeded my sanguine expectations .
bear boldly up against the storm : continue wise and mild , but believe it , and indeed it is , your duty to be happy .
and then he sent a letter and asked me to visit him , for he was lonely in the castle with no one to speak to save the new servants and labourers he had brought from the north .
you were attached to each other from your earliest infancy ; you studied together , and appeared , in dispositions and tastes , entirely suited to one another .
I thought it best , however , to dissemble my wrath , and to treat them with promises and fair words , until , by some good turn of fate , an opportunity of vengeance should be afforded me .
he thus explained : admit the earthly immortality of man to have been the first intention .
upon forcing the door no person was seen .
William and Phebe both succumbed to the yellow fever epidemic of , but Dutee was brought up by his cousin Rathbone Harris , Peleg &apos;s son .
and then , when in answer to my peevish words , I saw his countenance bent with living pity on me , when I saw him Gli occhi drizzo ver me con quel sembiante che Madre fa sopra figlioul deliro Paradiso .
and then there was &apos; The Man in the bell , &apos; a paper by the by , Miss Zenobia , which I cannot sufficiently recommend to your attention .
nor had I erred in my calculations nor had I endured in vain .
we divided its entire surface into compartments , which we numbered , so that none might be missed ; then we scrutinized each individual square inch throughout the premises , including the two houses immediately adjoining , with the microscope , as before . &quot;
your father &apos;s health is vigorous , and he asks but to see you , but to be assured that you are well ; and not a care will ever cloud his benevolent countenance .
in theory , no reason can be more unreasonable , but , in fact , there is none more strong .
I now saw that divine orb , gilding all the clouds with unwonted splendour , sink behind the horizon ; it disappeared from a world where he whom I would seek exists not ; it approached a world where he exists not .
I determined to go without a guide , for I was well acquainted with the path , and the presence of another would destroy the solitary grandeur of the scene .
there are many incidents that I might relate which shewed the diseased yet incomprehensible state of his mind ; but I will mention one that occurred while we were in company with several other persons .
during all that period she appeared to me the most amiable and benevolent of human creatures .
taking from his pocket a bunch of keys he unlocks with one of them , door marked in the cut above , and throws the cupboard fully open to the inspection of all present .
and when the music ceased and the mist lifted , we beheld not the Land of Cathuria , but a swift rushing resistless sea , over which our helpless barque was borne toward some unknown goal .
the deep grief which this scene had at first excited quickly gave way to rage and despair .
though I could hear nothing , I could see that they were bringing a decision of vast import to the first comer .
you labour under an entire mistake as to the nature of the plague ; but do not fear , I do not ask any of you to accompany me , nor to believe me , until I return safe and sound from my patient . &quot;
through the desire of all parties concerned , to keep the affair from the public , at least for the present , or until we had farther opportunities for investigation through our endeavors to effect this a garbled or exaggerated account made its way into society , and became the source of many unpleasant misrepresentations , and , very naturally , of a great deal of disbelief .
and this error is so egregious that I am confounded at the universality with which it has been received .
he was half lying on a high , fantastically balustraded terrace above a boundless jungle of outlandish , incredible peaks , balanced planes , domes , minarets , horizontal discs poised on pinnacles , and numberless forms of still greater wildness some of stone and some of metal which glittered gorgeously in the mixed , almost blistering glare from a polychromatic sky .
it appears that on March st , , a thin , dark young man of neurotic and excited aspect had called upon Professor Angell bearing the singular clay bas relief , which was then exceedingly damp and fresh .
but as the ensuing week commenced , I thought of the information which M. Krempe had given me concerning the lectures .
when I spoke to him he did not answer , so I knew I would have to let him finish the bottle .
with sickness of the heart the wanderer will flee back to the polluted Paris as to a less odious because less incongruous sink of pollution .
throwing myself upon a chair , I remained for some time absorbed in meditation .
would it not have puzzled these old moles too , to have explained by which of the two &quot; roads &quot; a cryptographist unriddles a cryptograph of more than usual secrecy , or by which of the two roads Champollion directed mankind to those enduring and almost innumerable truths which resulted from his deciphering the hieroglyphics .
add to all this shoes such as she had been known to wear upon the day of her disappearance , and , although these shoes may be &apos; sold in packages , &apos; you so far augment the probability as to verge upon the certain .
the one recoiled to solitude , that she might there entrench herself from disappointment and injury ; the other walked forth in open day , believing that none would harm her .
from his cradle to his grave , a gale of the blandest prosperity bore him along .
only the incoming tide , with perhaps one set of ripples more local than the long flung line of breakers .
she who by day and night cherished the age worn lover of her youth they , parts of my flesh , my children here they are : call them , scream their names through the night ; they will not answer &quot; He clung to the little heaps that marked the graves .
and the cheeks there were the roses as in her noon of life yes , these might indeed be the fair cheeks of the living Lady of Tremaine .
many minutes elapsed before any circumstance occurred tending to throw light upon the mystery .
in the twilight I heard it pounding on the rocks , and I knew it lay just over the hill where the twisting willows writhed against the clearing sky and the first stars of evening .
you are I doubt not prepared for what I am about to announce ; we must seperate and be divided for ever .
&quot; the pigeons about this time seeming to undergo much suffering , I determined upon giving them their liberty .
even the daytime was not safe , for after dawn there had been strange sounds in the house especially a thin , childish wail hastily choked off .
I mean its extreme porousness , considered independently by the worm eaten condition which is a consequence of navigation in these seas , and apart from the rottenness attendant upon age .
poverty was the cloud that veiled her excellencies , and all that was good in her seemed about to perish from want of the genial dew of affection .
&quot; for the love of God , Montressor &quot; &quot; Yes , &quot; I said , &quot; for the love of God &quot; But to these words I hearkened in vain for a reply .
on every leaf , on every small division of the universe , as on the hyacinth ai is engraved was imprinted the talisman of my existence she lives she is I had not time yet to analyze my feeling , to take myself to task , and leash in the tameless passion ; all was one idea , one feeling , one knowledge it was my life But the die was cast Raymond would marry Idris .
the youth was certain that many specimens even worse than the worst visible ones were kept locked indoors in some places .
her presence had seemed a blessing to them , but it would be unfair to her to keep her in poverty and want when Providence afforded her such powerful protection .
the distance was great , and I could distinguish nothing in detail ; but I did not at all like the look of that moving column .
now all was blasted ; instead of that serenity of conscience which allowed me to look back upon the past with self satisfaction , and from thence to gather promise of new hopes , I was seized by remorse and the sense of guilt , which hurried me away to a hell of intense tortures such as no language can describe .
and so with combativeness , with ideality , with causality , with constructiveness , so , in short , with every organ , whether representing a propensity , a moral sentiment , or a faculty of the pure intellect .
but it is not from them that there came the single glimpse of forbidden aeons which chills me when I think of it and maddens me when I dream of it .
&quot; gracious heavens &quot; I ejaculated &quot; the lunatics have most undoubtedly broken loose . &quot;
this , of course , must be Zadok Allen , the half crazed , liquorish nonagenarian whose tales of old Innsmouth and its shadow were so hideous and incredible .
he had restored order this had been a work which required perseverance , patience , and energy ; and he had neither slept nor waked but for the good of his country .
but Marsh &apos;s children and grandchildren look just like anyone else so far &apos;s I can see .
the body had not been quite fresh enough ; it is obvious that to restore normal mental attributes a body must be very fresh indeed ; and a burning of the old house had prevented us from burying the thing .
nor was her residence at her mother &apos;s house of a nature to restore her gaiety .
but what I observed with chief interest and delight were the open windows gorgeously ablaze with light and sending forth sound of the gayest revelry .
as I hung back and attempted to soothe him he grew more violent , saying : &quot; come now do not wait until later ; it is better to repent and be forgiven than to defy and be condemned . &quot;
the trees and the hills were close to him , and formed the gates of that timeless realm which was his true country .
in the same breath they called it a snake and a giant , a thunder devil and a bat , a vulture and a walking tree .
it was known that this nest of anarchy was old , and that the houses were tottering from the ravages of the years and the storms and the worms ; yet was the happening of that summer night a surprise because of its very queer uniformity .
I gave gold to my luckless companion ; I recommended her to the care of the attendants ; I then hastened away ; while the tormentor , the imagination , busied itself in picturing my own loved ones , stretched on such beds , attended thus .
struggling anew , I came to the end of the drug dream and opened my physical eyes to the tower studio in whose opposite corner reclined the pallid and still unconscious form of my fellow dreamer , weirdly haggard and wildly beautiful as the moon shed gold green light on his marble features .
my exertions , as I have before said , proved fruitless .
M. Camus now touched a spring ; whereupon the coachman smacked his whip , and the horses proceeded in a natural manner , along the edge of the table , drawing after them the carriage .
you look as if the enemy had tortured , before he murdered you .
the flash died , and an evil smile illumined the waxy face of the aged necromancer .
it was necessary to hear and see and touch him to be sure that he was not .
she returned to England , and the bitter tears she shed at parting were the last I saw flow for love of me for many years .
this brings me back to the rate at which it might be possible to travel .
do you think that I renounced the Protectorate and I have renounced it in a fit of spleen ?
let us be off let us take our departure for we shall find our delicate modern ears unable to endure the vast uproar which is about to commence in celebration of the king &apos;s escape Listen it has already commenced .
this sound disturbed an old woman who was sleeping in a chair beside me .
their wonder their rapturous astonishment may be conceived .
the narrative which follows will appear to the reader somewhat in the light of a commentary upon the propositions just advanced .
carriages and horses , gardens , pictures , statues , and princely libraries , there were enough of these even to superfluity ; and there was nothing to prevent each from assuming possession of his share .
all people who hold sinecure offices are held in more or less respect , and as the belfry man of Vondervotteimittiss has the most perfect of sinecures , he is the most perfectly respected of any man in the world .
the granddaughter , moreover , recalled even this much with difficulty .
the landlady meanwhile hurried away ; but a more compassionate bar maid gave her a detailed account , the sum of which was , that her husband had been taken ill , after a night of riot , and sent by his boon companions with all expedition to St. Bartholomew &apos;s Hospital .
my father made no reproach in his letters and only took notice of my silence by inquiring into my occupations more particularly than before .
the land was ploughed , the slender blades of wheat broke through the dark soil , the fruit trees were covered with buds , the husbandman was abroad in the fields , the milk maid tripped home with well filled pails , the swallows and martins struck the sunny pools with their long , pointed wings , the new dropped lambs reposed on the young grass , the tender growth of leaves lifts its sweet head into the air , and feeds A silent space with ever sprouting green .
fact is , I guess on the whole it was really the Captain that gave the bad reputation to the reef .
and for two whole days the sleek , lazy cats of Ulthar would touch no food , but only doze by the fire or in the sun .
perhaps it was only some sound connected with the clicking balls of the pool tables or the rattling glasses that were brought from the cryptic regions in the rear perhaps only that , plus some strange rustling of the dirty draperies at the one dingy window but many thought that someone in the room had gritted his teeth and drawn a very sharp breath .
&quot; I have already assured you of my fidelity , &quot; said Raymond with disdainful coldness , &quot; triple assertions will avail nothing where one is despised .
&quot; and I looked upwards , and there stood a man upon the summit of the rock ; and I hid myself among the water lilies that I might discover the actions of the man .
I saw the eye of Idris wander from me to her children , with an anxious appeal to my judgment .
&quot; do you think , Victor , &quot; said he , &quot; that I do not suffer also ?
my burning glances at length fell upon the face .
in the Sorrows of Werter , besides the interest of its simple and affecting story , so many opinions are canvassed and so many lights thrown upon what had hitherto been to me obscure subjects that I found in it a never ending source of speculation and astonishment .
in I was a physician with the rank of First Lieutenant in a Canadian regiment in Flanders , one of many Americans to precede the government itself into the gigantic struggle .
brimming delight now invested me .
in an instant his face grew violently red in another as excessively pale .
he now proceeds to close the doors and to lock them leaving the bunch of keys in door No . .
six years had passed since then : I was a wreck , but nought had changed in those savage and enduring scenes .
had opened an account with his banking house in the spring of the year eight years previously .
only observe , madam , the astute look of that Epsilon That Phi ought certainly to be a bishop Was ever there a smarter fellow than that Omicron ?
I rejected a thousand schemes , because their accomplishment involved a chance of detection .
at these words a vague and half formed conception of the meaning of Dupin flitted over my mind .
what chance what one event brought this evil thing to pass , bear with me while I relate .
smiling haughtily , he bent his head , and replied , with emphasis , &quot; Do you indeed confide , Lady Idris ? &quot;
he had at length proceeded to Pompelo with his lictors and attendants ; there hearing enough rumours to be greatly impressed and disturbed , and standing firmly by his order for the Sabbath &apos;s extirpation .
I knew that my design was very different in detail from this although there was a certain similarity in general outline .
one or two of our readers may have a very faint , although sufficiently disgusting recollection of a poem ?
it was now nearly daybreak , and I thought it high time to take my departure .
love What had I to love ?
he said this with an air of profound seriousness , and I felt inexpressibly shocked .
nor did any sound come from the box , after all .
with that sanguine but confused expectation , which desire engendered while she was at a distance from reality , she had formed an image in her mind of instantaneous change , when she should set her foot on Grecian shores .
the settings themselves , which we picked out from among the other gold , appeared to have been beaten up with hammers , as if to prevent identification .
or do they yield up their sweet lives as mankind yield up their own ?
yes , I hear it , and have heard it .
if one of my fellow miners appropriated it , he must have been quite clever in disposing of his booty , for despite advertisements and a police search the ring was never seen again .
what his feelings were whom I pursued I cannot know .
his feet , of course , could not be seen at all , although a horny substance of suspicious nature was occasionally protruded through a rent in the bottom of the car , or to speak more properly , in the top of the hat .
I made the brief trip by taxicab , and knocked with palpitant heart at the door of a neat and ancient building with plastered front .
they was a little volcanic island near thar , too , whar they was other ruins with diff &apos;rent carvin &apos;s ruins all wore away like they &apos;d ben under the sea onct , an &apos; with picters of awful monsters all over &apos; em .
as I looked more closely , I saw that in the sallow cheeks shone spots of colour which had never before been present .
but the same sentiment that first led me to pourtray scenes replete with tender recollections , now bids me hurry on .
it is at night , especially when the moon is gibbous and waning , that I see the thing .
six shots by midnight It is uncommon to fire all six shots of a revolver with great suddenness when one would probably be sufficient , but many things in the life of Herbert West were uncommon .
&quot; Boss , &quot; cried Schultz , as he entered the vile smelling room with his young victim , &quot; meet my friend Al Trever , bes &apos; li &apos;l &apos; sport up at Lawrence thas &apos; &apos; n Appleton , Wis . , y &apos; know .
the coincidence was strange , but I was too sound a reasoner to connect circumstances which admit of no logical connexion , or to associate in any uncanny fashion the disastrous events which had led from the Victory affair to my present plight .
its air , freighted with a thousand odours such as Coleridge may have found at Cologne , too seldom knows the purifying rays of the sun ; but fights for space with the acrid fumes of unnumbered cheap cigars and cigarettes which dangle from the coarse lips of unnumbered human animals that haunt the place day and night .
he is not at all nervous .
Evelyn was the only mirthful creature present : he sat on Clara &apos;s lap ; and , making matter of glee from his own fancies , laughed aloud .
by this time what little doubt I might have entertained of my poor friend &apos;s insanity , was put finally at rest .
let me reflect It is just possible that you may not be able , so soon as convenient , to to get yourself drowned , or choked with a chicken bone , or or hung , or bitten by a but stay Now I think me of it , there are a couple of very excellent bull dogs in the yard fine fellows , I assure you savage , and all that indeed just the thing for your money they &apos;ll have you eaten up , auricula and all , in less than five minutes here &apos;s my watch and then only think of the sensations Here I say Tom Peter Dick , you villain let out those &quot; but as I was really in a great hurry , and had not another moment to spare , I was reluctantly forced to expedite my departure , and accordingly took leave at once somewhat more abruptly , I admit , than strict courtesy would have otherwise allowed .
and this this keen , perfect , self existing sentiment of duration this sentiment existing as man could not possibly have conceived it to exist independently of any succession of events this idea this sixth sense , upspringing from the ashes of the rest , was the first obvious and certain step of the intemporal soul upon the threshold of the temporal Eternity .
the harbours of the desolate sea ports of the west of Ireland were filled with vessels of all sizes , from the man of war to the small fishers &apos; boat , which lay sailorless , and rotting on the lazy deep .
as if we should give to another artist , the painted fragments which form the mosaic copy of Raphael &apos;s Transfiguration in St. Peter &apos;s ; he would put them together in a form , whose mode would be fashioned by his own peculiar mind and talent .
I sauntered on , therefore , quite at ease Ponto taking charge of my gun until at length , just as I had begun to consider whether the numerous little glades that led hither and thither , were intended to be paths at all , I was conducted by one of them into an unquestionable carriage track .
Michel Mauvais had one son , named Charles , a youth as proficient as himself in the hidden arts , and who had therefore been called Le Sorcier , or the Wizard .
the eyes were lifeless , and lustreless , and seemingly pupilless , and I shrank involuntarily from their glassy stare to the contemplation of the thin and shrunken lips .
once we looked at the pavement and found the blocks loose and displaced by grass , with scarce a line of rusted metal to shew where the tramways had run .
his family never called to see him ; probably it had found another temporary head , after the manner of decadent mountain folk .
the emigrants embarked by hundreds , and unfurling their sails with rude hands , made strange havoc of buoy and cordage .
I listened to him with wonder ; but that his sad demeanour and solemn utterance assured me of the truth and intensity of his feelings , I should with light derision have attempted to dissipate his fears .
and certain tribes , more hardy than the rest , pushed on to the border of the lake and built Sarnath at a spot where precious metals were found in the earth .
I feel that I am not awaking from ordinary sleep .
Alos , my friend , was commander of all the forces on the plateau , and in him lay the last hope of our country .
his jaws opened , and he muttered some inarticulate sounds , while a grin wrinkled his cheeks .
&quot; it wouldn &apos;t do not to answer it anyway , and it may be a patient it would be like one of those fools to try the back door . &quot;
long the Duke of L derided the idea that there could be danger while he pursued his plans of cautious seclusion ; and he so far succeeded , that it was not till this second summer , that the destroyer , at one fell stroke , overthrew his precautions , his security , and his life .
any burst of indignation upon this discovery would have affected me less than the silent contempt , or the sarcastic composure , with which it was received .
&quot; help &quot; said Ryland , &quot; there is no help great God , who talks of help All the world has the plague &quot; &quot; Then to avoid it , we must quit the world , &quot; observed Adrian , with a gentle smile .
before I decided on my marriage with Idris , I resolved to see him myself again , and to judge of the probability of his recovery .
to show that certain movements might possibly be effected in a certain way , is very far from showing that they are actually so effected .
you are aware of the great force necessary in tearing thus from the head even twenty or thirty hairs together .
I became acquainted with the science of anatomy , but this was not sufficient ; I must also observe the natural decay and corruption of the human body .
when at a short distance from him I saw that he was deadlily sic pale , and clothed in flowing garments of white .
my parents were possessed by the very spirit of kindness and indulgence .
these walls are solidly put together ; &quot; and here , through the mere phrenzy of bravado , I rapped heavily , with a cane which I held in my hand , upon that very portion of the brick work behind which stood the corpse of the wife of my bosom .
by her side there stands a fat tabby cat , with a gilt toy repeater tied to its tail , which &quot; the boys &quot; have there fastened by way of a quiz .
his card bore the name of Henry Anthony Wilcox , and my uncle had recognised him as the youngest son of an excellent family slightly known to him , who had latterly been studying sculpture at the Rhode Island School of design and living alone at the Fleur de Lys Building near that institution .
the vaulted roof echoed again his infant tone .
behold , on these desert seas I have found such a one , but I fear I have gained him only to know his value and lose him .
of myself I cannot find him but you know where he lies lead me thither . &quot;
I saw his cheeks become pale , and his lips whiten and quiver ; his anger served but to enkindle mine , and I answered with a determined look his eyes which glared on me ; suddenly they were withdrawn , cast down , a tear , I thought , wetted the dark lashes ; I was softened , and with involuntary emotion added , &quot; Not that you are such , my dear lord . &quot;
let me think what should I have ?
uncle Chris had told him something odd once about an old unopened box with a key in it , but Aunt Martha had stopped the story abruptly , saying it was no kind of thing to tell a child whose head was already too full of queer fancies .
a Wordsworth B Dante CHAPTER III It was on my sixteenth birthday that my aunt received a letter from my father .
since I saw you I have had great cause for anxiety .
when the frequent rains shut us within doors , evening recreation followed morning study , ushered in by music and song .
it is assumed that the murder was committed at such a position , and under such circumstances , that the bearing it to the river became necessary .
while the Chess Player was in possession of Baron Kempelen , it was more than once observed , first , that an Italian in the suite of the Baron was never visible during the playing of a game at chess by the Turk , and , secondly , that the Italian being taken seriously ill , the exhibition was suspended until his recovery .
trees , grass , and underbrush were whipped into a fury ; and the frightened crowd at the mountain &apos;s base , weakened by the lethal foetor that seemed about to asphyxiate them , were almost hurled off their feet .
but nobody aoutside &apos;ll hev nothin &apos; to do with Innsmouth folks naow .
funds even the most ample , are not always everlasting : and it was with empty pockets our friends had ventured upon the present hostelrie .
in that night &apos;s wandering there was no more of strangeness than in many a former night &apos;s wandering ; but there was more of terror because I knew I was closer to those outside gulfs and worlds than I had ever been before .
it was hope that prompted the nerve to quiver the frame to shrink .
I pushed it open ; and , with some hay strewed about , I formed a couch for her , placing her exhausted frame on it , and covering her with my cloak .
aside from an obvious rat hole and the signs of other stopped up ones , there was no access nor any appearance of a former avenue of access to the space which must have existed between the slanting wall and the straight outer wall on the house &apos;s north side , though a view from the exterior shewed where a window had been boarded up at a very remote date .
Raymond was eminently social .
the document in question a letter , to be frank had been received by the personage robbed while alone in the royal boudoir .
I have spoken both of &quot; sound &quot; and of &quot; voice . &quot;
old Kranon again insisted that it was the dark folk who had taken them , since cats did not return alive from the cottage of the ancient man and his wife .
such were my thoughts when the door of my apartment was opened and Mr. Kirwin entered .
he told her , that her sufferings were now over : no one possessed the art of consoling like Raymond ; he did not reason or declaim , but his look shone with sympathy ; he brought pleasant images before the sufferer ; his caresses excited no distrust , for they arose purely from the feeling which leads a mother to kiss her wounded child ; a desire to demonstrate in every possible way the truth of his feelings , and the keenness of his wish to pour balm into the lacerated mind of the unfortunate .
his feelings seemed better fitted for a spirit whose habitation is the earthquake and the volcano than for one confined to a mortal body and human lineaments .
the collation of philosophical opinions , the study of historical facts , the acquirement of languages , were at once my recreation , and the serious aim of my life .
the mathematical reason has long been regarded as the reason par excellence . &quot;
to save myself and Erich Zann I could at least try , whatever the powers opposed to me .
there he sat in the belfry upon the belfry man , who was lying flat upon his back .
suddenly , therefore and as if by the hand of magic this whole valley and every thing in it became brilliantly visible .
it was truly horrible , and the more so to me because of what I knew of the spot .
so we both went down the stairs on tiptoe , with a fear partly justified and partly that which comes only from the soul of the weird small hours .
his gaze was still pulled to the southwest , but he also found himself listening intently for some sound in the closed loft above , and half imagining that an evil violet light seeped down through an infinitesimal crack in the low , slanting ceiling .
and again he kissed her eyes and lips , and hung over her inanimate form in agony , gazing on her countenance still lovely although changed , watching every slight convulsion , and varying colour which denoted life still lingering although about to depart .
oxygen , which was the principle of combustion , and the vehicle of heat , was absolutely necessary to the support of animal life , and was the most powerful and energetic agent in nature .
these occurred twice a day ; once about noon she came to my nursery , and once after her dinner I was taken to her .
Musides ever granted his requests , though his eyes filled with visible tears at the thought that Kalos should care more for the fauns and the dryads than for him .
but even admitting the central orb non luminous , how did he manage to explain its failure to be rendered visible by the incalculable host of glorious suns glaring in all directions about it ?
what I have seen cannot be true , and I know that this madness of my own will at most lead only to suffocation when my air is gone .
fortunately she was not alone .
and Olney &apos;s children and stout wife prayed to the bland proper god of Baptists , and hoped that the traveller would borrow an umbrella and rubbers unless the rain stopped by morning .
there were seven an imperial suite .
he not only believes , but positively knows , that such and such apparently arbitrary arrangements of matter constitute and alone constitute the true beauty .
the Superintendent , a Mr. Arthur , often discussed the singularity of the local geological formations ; speculating on the probable extent of the chain of caves , and estimating the future of the titanic mining enterprise .
it might have been half an hour after this altercation when , as I was deeply absorbed in the heavenly scenery beneath me , I was startled by something very cold which pressed with a gentle pressure on the back of my neck .
it was in vain that Fortunato , uplifting his dull torch , endeavored to pry into the depths of the recess .
for they had called me mad , and during many months , as I understood , a solitary cell had been my habitation .
she described in vivid terms the ceaseless care that with still renewing hunger ate into her soul ; she compared this gnawing of sleepless expectation of evil , to the vulture that fed on the heart of Prometheus ; under the influence of this eternal excitement , and of the interminable struggles she endured to combat and conceal it , she felt , she said , as if all the wheels and springs of the animal machine worked at double rate , and were fast consuming themselves .
one day she accompanied me , upon some household errand , into the cellar of the old building which our poverty compelled us to inhabit .
&quot; but me no buts , sir , and none of your tricks upon travellers . &quot;
she wept over her little girl ; she looked , she spoke , as if she dreaded the occurrence of some frightful calamity .
we may be instructed to build a &quot; Cato , &quot; but we are in vain told how to conceive a Parthenon or an &quot; Inferno . &quot;
the figures moved uncertainly , and I realised to my relief that they did not know where I had gone ; but for all that they sent a shiver of horror through my frame .
in such a spot death loses half its terrors , and even the inanimate dust appears to partake of the spirit of beauty which hallows this region .
all is gray shadow a weak and irregular remembrance an indistinct regathering of feeble pleasures and phantasmagoric pains .
for this purpose I will preserve my life ; to execute this dear revenge will I again behold the sun and tread the green herbage of earth , which otherwise should vanish from my eyes forever .
in the village of Little Marlow an old woman ruled the community .
its insinuations amount to this : that Marie , with the connivance of her friends , had absented herself from the city for reasons involving a charge against her chastity ; and that these friends , upon the discovery of a corpse in the Seine , somewhat resembling that of the girl , had availed themselves of the opportunity to impress the public with the belief of her death .
curiosity , earnest research to learn the hidden laws of nature , gladness akin to rapture , as they were unfolded to me , are among the earliest sensations I can remember .
there may be a class of beings , human once , but now invisible to humanity , to whom , from afar , our disorder may seem order our unpicturesqueness picturesque , in a word , the earth angels , for whose scrutiny more especially than our own , and for whose death refined appreciation of the beautiful , may have been set in array by God the wide landscape gardens of the hemispheres . &quot;
the eyeglass was presented by way of adding a reproof to the hoax a sting to the epigram of the deception .
at length , my schemes being ripe , I met him with the full intention that this meeting should be final and decisive at the chambers of a fellow commoner , Mr. Preston , equally intimate with both , but who , to do him justice , entertained not even a remote suspicion of my design .
he examined my disordered eye with much gentleness and skill , informed me that I had a drop in it , and whatever a &quot; drop &quot; was took it out , and afforded me relief .
in the outer garment , a slip , about a foot wide , had been torn upward from the bottom hem to the waist , but not torn off .
what had most disgusted the searchers of Arkham was the thing they noticed when the monster &apos;s face was cleaned the mocking , unbelievable resemblance to a learned and self sacrificing martyr who had been entombed but three days before the late Dr. Allan Halsey , public benefactor and dean of the medical school of Miskatonic University .
noises in the hills continued to be reported from year to year , and still form a puzzle to geologists and physiographers .
amorphous shadows seemed to lurk in the darker recesses of the weed choked hollow and to flit as in some blasphemous ceremonial procession past the portals of the mouldering tombs in the hillside ; shadows which could not have been cast by that pallid , peering crescent moon .
when Raymond entered the coffee room , his presence was hailed by his friends almost with a shout .
no direct cause was evident , and an autopsy failed to shew any reason why Romero should not be living .
at this instant , I know not what sudden self possession came over my spirit .
the ancient idea confined investigations to crawling ; and for hundreds of years so great was the infatuation about Hog especially , that a virtual end was put to all thinking , properly so called .
this frequently took place , but a high wind quickly dried the earth , and the season became far more pleasant than it had been .
and there were likewise fountains , which cast scented waters about in pleasing jets arranged with cunning art .
it appeared to grow upon me as I drew nearer and nearer to my dreadful doom .
now , the particular motion of the incarnated portions of the unparticled matter is the thought of man ; as the motion of the whole is that of God .
who , I asked myself , was this man of evil , and how came he within the castle walls ?
it made one think of poor Rhoby Harris nearly a century before , and so moved my uncle that he commenced collecting historical data on the house after listening , some time subsequent to his return from the war , to the first hand account of Drs.
Idris and her mother returned immediately to Windsor , while Adrian and I followed by slow journies and frequent stoppages , occasioned by his continued weakness .
upon my conclusion , he sank back into his seat , as if much overcome , letting his arms fall lifelessly by his side , but keeping his mouth still rigorously open , after the fashion of the duck .
with thorough bred seamen to clamber up the roughly fashioned plank work was a trifle ; and , maddened with the twofold excitement of exercise and liquor , they leaped unhesitatingly down within the enclosure , and holding on their drunken course with shouts and yellings , were soon bewildered in its noisome and intricate recesses .
to me , at least , the presence not of human life only , but of life in any other form than that of the green things which grow upon the soil and are voiceless is a stain upon the landscape is at war with the genius of the scene .
he looked gloomy and perturbed .
how can it ever be suspected that a brute beast should have done the deed ?
you will behold new scenes ; see a new people ; witness the mighty struggle there going forward between civilization and barbarism ; behold , and perhaps direct the efforts of a young and vigorous population , for liberty and order .
and the revel went whirlingly on , until at length there commenced the sounding of midnight upon the clock .
he was now to enter into life and he was still young enough to consider study as a school boy shackle , employed merely to keep the unruly out of mischief but as having no real connexion with life whose wisdom of riding gaming C. he considered with far deeper interest So he quickly entered into all college follies although his heart was too well moulded to be contaminated by them it might be light but it was never cold .
I think their predominant colour was a greyish green , though they had white bellies .
Boston never had a greater painter than Richard Upton Pickman .
and , knowing the extent of his personal acquaintance with others , and of others with him , he compares his notoriety with that of the perfumery girl , finds no great difference between them , and reaches at once the conclusion that she , in her walks , would be equally liable to recognition with himself in his .
his face set itself into a grim expression , but I could see his right hand shaking as he tried to grip the back of a chair .
upon taking it off , the whole was just as you see it now . &quot;
great and long continued labor necessary for the condensation of the atmosphere .
it had been pawned for a ridiculous sum at a shop in State Street in , by a drunken Innsmouth man shortly afterward killed in a brawl .
I think the climax came when he had proved his point that rational life can be restored , and had sought new worlds to conquer by experimenting on the reanimation of detached parts of bodies .
what they done to the victims it ain &apos;t fer me to say , an &apos; I guess Obed wa &apos;n&apos;t none too sharp abaout askin &apos; .
pious cusses , these was they didn &apos;t leave nothin &apos; standin &apos; on either the main island or the little volcanic islet excep &apos; what parts of the ruins was too big to knock daown .
it roused all my dormant recollections , my suspended sentiments of injury , and gave rise to the new one of revenge .
&quot; but what extraordinary tumult do I hear ?
even then , while I gazed , they came up in troops , hurriedly , with ravenous eyes , allured by the scent of the meat .
as a thing of art nothing could be more admirable than the painting itself .
with the coming of Raymond was formed the storm that laid waste at one fell blow the gardens of delight and sheltered paths which Adrian fancied that he had secured to himself , as a refuge from defeat and contumely .
legs , leaning against the wall near which he happened to be standing , dropped his lower jaw still lower than usual , and spread open his eyes to their fullest extent : while Hugh Tarpaulin , stooping down so as to bring his nose upon a level with the table , and spreading out a palm upon either knee , burst into a long , loud , and obstreperous roar of very ill timed and immoderate laughter .
I would keep my eyes shut till the sounds receded toward the west .
this is a moderate altitude , even when compared with the eighty miles in question ; and I could not help thinking that the subject admitted room for doubt and great latitude for speculation .
these passages are literal translations from L &apos;Etoile , a paper conducted , in general , with much ability .
&quot; that of course ; and when we had absolutely completed every particle of the furniture in this way , then we examined the house itself .
I longed to avoid the necessity of action ; I strove to escape from thought vainly futurity , like a dark image in a phantasmagoria , came nearer and more near , till it clasped the whole earth in its shadow .
this idea , however simple it may now seem , escaped the police for the same reason that the breadth of the shutters escaped them because , by the affair of the nails , their perceptions had been hermetically sealed against the possibility of the windows having ever been opened at all .
at these moments I wept bitterly and wished that peace would revisit my mind only that I might afford them consolation and happiness .
far below the animals of the field preying on one anothers sic hearts ; happy in the downfall of others themselves holding on with bent necks and cruel eyes to a wretch more a slave if possible than they to his miserable passions And if I said these are the consequences of civilization turned to the savage world I saw only ignorance unrepaid by any noble feeling a mere animal , love of life joined to a low love of power a fiendish love of destruction I saw a creature drawn on by his senses his selfish passions but untouched by aught noble or even Human And then when I sought for consolation in the various faculties man is possessed of which I felt burning within me I found that spirit of union with love beauty which formed my happiness pride degraded into superstition turned from its natural growth which could bring forth only good fruit : cruelty intolerance hard tyranny was grafted on its trunk from it sprung fruit suitable to such grafts If I mingled with my fellow creatures was the voice I heard that of love virtue or that of selfishness vice , still misery was ever joined to it the tears of mankind formed a vast sea ever blown on by its sighs seldom illuminated by its smiles Such taking only one side of the picture shutting wisdom from the view is a just portraiture of the creation as seen on earth But when I compared the good evil of the world wished to divide them into two seperate principles I found them inextricably intwined together I was again cast into perplexity doubt I might have considered the earth as an imperfect formation where having bad materials to work on the Creator could only palliate the evil effects of his combinations but I saw a wanton malignity in many parts particularly in the mind of man that baffled me a delight in mischief a love of evil for evils sake a siding of the multitude a dastardly applause which in their hearts the crowd gave to triumphant wickedness over lowly virtue that filled me with painful sensations .
it seemed to me that some accident say the loss of a memorandum indicating its locality had deprived him of the means of recovering it , and that this accident had become known to his followers , who otherwise might never have heard that treasure had been concealed at all , and who , busying themselves in vain , because unguided attempts , to regain it , had given first birth , and then universal currency , to the reports which are now so common .
as many more persons were actually gulled by the &quot; Moon Hoax &quot; than would be willing to acknowledge the fact , it may here afford some little amusement to show why no one should have been deceived to point out those particulars of the story which should have been sufficient to establish its real character .
the sailor , in the meantime , was both rejoiced and perplexed .
the first attempt at a written explanation of the secret , at least the first attempt of which we ourselves have any knowledge , was made in a large pamphlet printed at Paris in .
the storms of the last winter were renewed ; but the diminished shipping of this year caused us to feel less the tempests of the sea .
accident is admitted as a portion of the substructure .
their food , as I afterwards found , was coarse , but it was wholesome ; and they procured a sufficiency of it .
he had prepared a huge stick , the other day , with which to chastise me for giving him the slip , and spending the day , solus , among the hills on the main land .
my agony was at length insufferable , and I awoke just in time to perceive that a rat had ran off with the lighted candle from the stand , but not in season to prevent his making his escape with it through the hole .
now , we ask , what was there in this case to cause a departure from the ordinary course of nature ? ...
&quot; spring advanced rapidly ; the weather became fine and the skies cloudless .
and were those and were those were those wrinkles , upon the visage of Eugenie Lalande ?
then she had drawn those devices on the walls of her cell and vanished .
the face was fearfully discolored , and the eye balls protruded .
I believed that you read my heart , and knew its devotion , its unalienable fidelity towards you .
it seems to me quite incredible that any man of common understanding could have discovered what Mr. Kissam says he did , and yet have subsequently acted so like a baby so like an owl as Mr. Kissam admits that he did .
well , in spite of all this , that next room forced a real scream out of me , and I had to clutch at the doorway to keep from keeling over .
by Tuesday he had a definite line of action mapped out , and believed he would try a trip to Dunwich within a week .
so they moved up to the one lighted window and heard the Terrible Old Man talking childishly to his bottles with pendulums .
these had not thrown down their weapons , more from fear than the spirit of contest ; they looked at each other , each wishing to follow some example given him , but they had no leader .
none of the country folk seemed to have died but poor Lavinia Whateley , the twisted albino , was never seen again .
&quot; but the danger , my dear sir , of which you were speaking , in your own experience during your control of this house have you had practical reason to think liberty hazardous in the case of a lunatic ? &quot; &quot; here ? in my own experience ?
the conscience of the woman was troubled ; she began to think that the deaths of her favourites was a judgement from heaven to chastise her partiality .
we demand at once , and very naturally , why ?
you &apos;ll get a shock though you will see nothing repulsive . &quot;
those fungi , grotesquely like the vegetation in the yard outside , were truly horrible in their outlines ; detestable parodies of toadstools and Indian pipes , whose like we had never seen in any other situation .
the assassins would most probably have disposed of both in the same way .
the youth &apos;s oversensitive ears caught a hideous strangled cry , and presently the beldame came out of the room bearing a small , senseless form which she thrust at the dreamer as if ordering him to carry it .
everybody believed that poor girl to be guilty ; and if she could have committed the crime for which she suffered , assuredly she would have been the most depraved of human creatures .
coming early to London , I saw as a Child many of the celebrated Men of King William &apos;s reign , including the lamented Mr. Dryden , who sat much at the tables of Will &apos;s coffee House .
my rising startled his horse ; he reared and plunged and the Rider was at length thrown .
a muffled squeal or squawk , and a thud .
I had small hope of success , and entreated Idris to watch over my sister .
about half way across there was a perilous gap in the ties which I feared for a moment would halt me ; but in the end I risked a desperate jump which fortunately succeeded .
the rising sun first tinged the pine tops ; and my mind , rendered through my mountain education deeply susceptible of the graces of nature , and now on the eve of again beholding my beloved and perhaps dying friend , was strangely influenced by the sight of those distant beams : surely they were ominous , and as such I regarded them , good omens for Adrian , on whose life my happiness depended .
I felt nothing ; yet dreaded to move a step , lest I should be impeded by the walls of a tomb .
I , though sinning against you almost beyond remission , I also am proud ; there must be no reserve in your pardon no drawback to the gift of your affection . &quot;
there my eyes dilated again with a wild wonder as great as if I had not just turned from a scene beyond the pale of Nature , for on the ghastly red litten plain was moving a procession of beings in such a manner as none ever saw before save in nightmares .
&quot; at half past nine I tried the experiment of throwing out a handful of feathers through the valve .
now it was that , in twilight , we discoursed of the days to come , when the Art scarred surface of the Earth , having undergone that purification which alone could efface its rectangular obscenities , should clothe itself anew in the verdure and the mountain slopes and the smiling waters of Paradise , and be rendered at length a fit dwelling place for man : for man the Death purged for man to whose now exalted intellect there should be poison in knowledge no more for the redeemed , regenerated , blissful , and now immortal , but still for the material , man .
therefore , what I shall tell of the earlier period , believe ; and to what I may relate of the later time , give only such credit as may seem due , or doubt it altogether , or , if doubt it ye cannot , then play unto its riddle the Oedipus .
my good nurse always schooled me with the greatest care before she ventured into the parlour and the awe my aunt &apos;s cold looks and few constrained words inspired was so great that I seldom disgraced her lessons or was betrayed from the exemplary stillness which I was taught to observe during these short visits .
he was silent during our ride , yet his manner was kinder than before and I thought I beheld a softness in his eyes that gave me hope .
Adrian threw himself from his horse , and approaching one of those just slain : &quot; he was a man , &quot; he cried , &quot; and he is dead .
such , I have long known , is the paradoxical law of all sentiments having terror as a basis .
the action , however , was but momentary , his gaze returned mechanically to the wall .
there were nauseous musical instruments , stringed , brass , and wood wind , on which St. John and I sometimes produced dissonances of exquisite morbidity and cacodaemoniacal ghastliness ; whilst in a multitude of inlaid ebony cabinets reposed the most incredible and unimaginable variety of tomb loot ever assembled by human madness and perversity .
perhaps in no part of the world has she met with so systematic and determined an opposition .
Pluto this was the cat &apos;s name was my favorite pet and playmate .
his expectoration was excessive .
it was now that they hand cuffed him ; and before proceeding to ransack the premises they searched his person , but nothing unusual was found about him , excepting a paper parcel , in his coat pocket , containing what was afterward ascertained to be a mixture of antimony and some unknown substance , in nearly , but not quite , equal proportions .
Dr. Muñoz summoned me by thumping on the floor , and I worked desperately to repair the injury while my host cursed in a tone whose lifeless , rattling hollowness surpassed description .
this basin was of great depth , but so transparent was the water that the bottom , which seemed to consist of a thick mass of small round alabaster pebbles , was distinctly visible by glimpses that is to say , whenever the eye could permit itself not to see , far down in the inverted heaven , the duplicate blooming of the hills .
my head , too , was excessively painful ; and , having felt for some time a moisture about my cheeks , I at length discovered it to be blood , which was oozing quite fast from the drums of my ears .
the track , it appears was double only ; ours , you know , has twelve paths ; and three or four new ones are in preparation .
Dr. Armitage made no written record of its mouthings , but asserts confidently that nothing in English was uttered .
what he had seen , he dared not tell me ; but he said from his wisdom that we must sleep as little as possible , even if drugs were necessary to keep us awake .
&apos;Twas then Obed got the ol &apos; branch railrud put through .
fall back ; these misguided men shall not be slaughtered , while I am your general .
this I mastered before I was breeched .
mine was an idle , useless life ; it was so ; but say not to the lily laid prostrate by the storm arise , and bloom as before .
I brought to mind the inquisitorial proceedings , and attempted from that point to deduce my real condition .
now and then we crossed crude wooden bridges over tidal creeks that wound far inland and promoted the general isolation of the region .
I will go instantly to Adrian ; and , if he inclines to consent , you will not destroy my labour by persuading him to return , and turn squirrel again in Windsor Forest .
he could not have been more than two feet in height ; but this altitude , little as it was , would have been sufficient to destroy his equilibrium , and tilt him over the edge of his tiny car , but for the intervention of a circular rim reaching as high as the breast , and rigged on to the cords of the balloon .
and overhead , with a rustling and loud noise , the gray clouds rush westwardly forever , until they roll , a cataract , over the fiery wall of the horizon .
but when we remember that these savages were undoubtedly cannibals , we are led to the conclusion that they intended him for sausage .
we opened every possible drawer ; and I presume you know that , to a properly trained police agent , such a thing as a secret drawer is impossible .
it was incredibly tough and thick , but so old that we finally pried it open and feasted our eyes on what it held .
he was addicted to study , and imbued beyond his years with learning and talent : report said that he had already begun to thwart his mother &apos;s views , and to entertain republican principles .
certainly neither their shape , size , nor any other such peculiarity , so soon as their remarkable situation .
I was saved from being a &quot; respectable hardware and commission merchant , doing a capital bit of business , &quot; and I felt grateful to the protuberance which had been the means of my salvation , as well as to the kindhearted female who had originally put these means within my reach .
overpowered by her new sensations , she did not pause to examine them , or to regulate her conduct by any sentiments except the tyrannical one which suddenly usurped the empire of her heart .
but since it is of my more recent associate , the late Dr. Johnson , that I am at this time desir &apos;d to write ; I will pass over my youth for the present .
it would have been a miracle indeed , if , while a gang of ruffians were perpetrating , at a given locality , a most unheard of wrong , there should have been another similar gang , in a similar locality , in the same city , under the same circumstances , with the same means and appliances , engaged in a wrong of precisely the same aspect , at precisely the same period of time Yet in what , if not in this marvellous train of coincidence , does the accidentally suggested opinion of the populace call upon us to believe ?
the Vigilant left Valparaiso March th , and on April nd was driven considerably south of her course by exceptionally heavy storms and monster waves .
my namesake alone , of those who in school phraseology constituted &quot; our set , &quot; presumed to compete with me in the studies of the class in the sports and broils of the play ground to refuse implicit belief in my assertions , and submission to my will indeed , to interfere with my arbitrary dictation in any respect whatsoever .
I felt creeping upon me , by slow yet certain degrees , the wild influences of his own fantastic yet impressive superstitions .
again : have you ever noticed which of the street signs , over the shop doors , are the most attractive of attention ? &quot;
at length the squatter settlement , a miserable huddle of huts , hove in sight ; and hysterical dwellers ran out to cluster around the group of bobbing lanterns .
the cat herself appeared to suffer again very much , and I had no hesitation in attributing her uneasiness chiefly to a difficulty in breathing ; but my experiment with the kittens had resulted very strangely .
we passed by a natural archway , leading to a second gallery , and enquired , if we could not enter there also .
the clothes , however , were now submitted to the mother and friends of the deceased , and fully identified as those worn by the girl upon leaving home .
I saw , to my horror , that the pitcher had been removed .
but there arrived at length an epoch , from which the pleasurable feeling grew , by scarcely perceptible gradations , into a haunting and harassing thought .
I felt , too , that I lay upon some hard substance , and by something similar my sides were , also , closely compressed .
&apos;All experience shows , &apos; says this paper , &apos; that drowned bodies , or bodies thrown into the water immediately after death by violence , require from six to ten days for sufficient decomposition to take place to bring them to the top of the water .
standing on one leg three hours , to show off new style strapped pants at cents per leg per hour ............. AUG . .
what else , he added , could ever in any case be proved or believed ?
the fare was , indeed , coarse , such as the peasants of the country ate , but I will not doubt that it was set there by the spirits that I had invoked to aid me .
the family resources were now sadly slender , and Jermyn House had fallen into woeful disrepair , but young Arthur loved the old edifice and all its contents .
his care was the soul , to move the luckless crowd , who relied wholly on him .
on this occasion Adrian and Idris met after a separation of nearly a year .
Zeb here was callin &apos; folks up an &apos; everybody was a listenin &apos; in when a call from Seth Bishop &apos;s cut in .
I clung to the memory of my parents ; my mother I should never see , she was dead : but the idea of my unhappy , wandering father was the idol of my imagination .
the present poem &apos; On the Oil of Bob , &apos; has excited universal anxiety and curiosity in respect to the owner of the evident pseudonym , &apos; Snob &apos; a curiosity which , happily , we have it in our power to satisfy .
Raymond only took her hand when he went , and looked on her expressively ; she answered by a look of intelligence and assent .
&quot; the next question is that of the mode of descent .
this roused me from my nearly dormant state , and I ate some berries which I found hanging on the trees or lying on the ground .
I wept bitterly , and clasping my hands in agony , I exclaimed , &quot; Oh Stars and clouds and winds , ye are all about to mock me ; if ye really pity me , crush sensation and memory ; let me become as nought ; but if not , depart , depart , and leave me in darkness . &quot;
one of them stopped me , and , conjecturing that I was ignorant of the circumstance , told me not to go on , for that an infected person lay but at a short distance .
the materials furnished the passive brain by the senses were not in the least degree wrought into shape by the deceased understanding .
I shed no tears but my eyes wild and inflamed were starting from my head ; I could hardly support the weight that pressed upon my brain .
he was habited , somewhat uniquely , in a new and handsome mahogany coffin .
but folks wrote me things wa &apos;n&apos;t so bad .
oh , praise the eternal justice of man Yet I ask you not to spare me ; listen to me , and then , if you can , and if you will , destroy the work of your hands . &quot;
&quot; you must not you shall not behold this &quot; said I , shudderingly , to Usher , as I led him , with a gentle violence , from the window to a seat .
the parvenu , who had been induced by my artifices in the early part of the evening , to drink deeply , now shuffled , dealt , or played , with a wild nervousness of manner for which his intoxication , I thought , might partially , but could not altogether account .
it is impossible that she could have gone to the Barrière du Roule , or to the Rue des Drômes , without being recognized by a dozen persons ; yet no one has come forward who saw her outside of her mother &apos;s door , and there is no evidence , except the testimony concerning her expressed intentions , that she did go out at all .
toward one o &apos;clock Old Whateley gained consciousness , and interrupted his wheezing to choke out a few words to his grandson .
he had , he told me excitedly , in all likelihood solved the problem of freshness through an approach from an entirely new angle that of artificial preservation .
for , people will naturally reason thus , It is Maelzel &apos;s interest to represent this thing a pure machine he refuses to do so , directly , in words , although he does not scruple , and is evidently anxious to do so , indirectly by actions were it actually what he wishes to represent it by actions , he would gladly avail himself of the more direct testimony of words the inference is , that a consciousness of its not being a pure machine , is the reason of his silence his actions cannot implicate him in a falsehood his words may . .
now , I say , there came to my ears a low , dull , quick sound , such as a watch makes when enveloped in cotton .
you ought not to have made him come back .
besides , so ancient a sea captain must have witnessed scores of things much more stirring in the far off days of his unremembered youth .
the old man clawed and spat at me through the mouldy air , and barked things in his throat as he swayed with the yellow curtain he clutched .
that question , however , he did not deem vital ; since it would be unnecessary to know the origin of the symbols if , as he suspected , they were used as a cipher in a modern language .
upon one occasion we had protracted our sitting until nearly daybreak , and an unusual quantity of wine had been drunk .
&quot; notwithstanding your bitter letter , &quot; he wrote , &quot; for bitter I must call it , you are the chief person in my estimation , and it is your happiness that I would principally consult .
CHAPTER I was soon introduced into the presence of the magistrate , an old benevolent man with calm and mild manners .
she only stipulated to be permitted to accompany him .
one early morning in August Olney set out to find a path to the inaccessible pinnacle .
there was no living being near to soothe her , or withdraw her from this hideous company .
Idris leant on my arm ; her sadness yielded to the present sense of pleasure .
he felt sure he was in the immemorially sealed loft above his own room , but whether he could ever escape through the slanting floor or the long stopped egress he doubted greatly .
&quot; very good , sir , &quot; replies the shop keeper , who entertains , at once , a lofty opinion of the high mindedness of his customer .
I determined to wall it up in the cellar as the monks of the middle ages are recorded to have walled up their victims .
plague sat paramount the while , and laughed us to scorn .
for the sake of a few jewels , to have murdered the son of her benefactor and friend , a child whom she had nursed from its birth , and appeared to love as if it had been her own I could not consent to the death of any human being , but certainly I should have thought such a creature unfit to remain in the society of men .
I know not how it was but , with the first glimpse of the building , a sense of insufferable gloom pervaded my spirit .
he has been occupied all the day in the attempt to convince me that the ancient Amriccans governed themselves did ever anybody hear of such an absurdity ?
my curiosity , however , had not been altogether satisfied , and I resolved to prosecute immediate inquiry among my acquaintances touching the Brevet Brigadier General himself , and particularly respecting the tremendous events quorum pars magna fuit , during the Bugaboo and Kickapoo campaign .
hereafter , perhaps , some intellect may be found which will reduce my phantasm to the common place some intellect more calm , more logical , and far less excitable than my own , which will perceive , in the circumstances I detail with awe , nothing more than an ordinary succession of very natural causes and effects .
but Tillinghast had been watching me , and was speaking .
Walton , in continuation .
I never carried out of the sepulchre any of the things I came upon whilst within its walls .
Costs of suit , four dollars and twenty five cents .
securing temporary quarters for himself and his wife at the newly opened Golden Ball Inn , he arranged for the building of a new and finer house in Westminster Street , in the growing part of the town across the Great Bridge .
quoting the text , there are many mansions in my father &apos;s house , he insisted that the modes of becoming good or great , varied as much as the dispositions of men , of whom it might be said , as of the leaves of the forest , there were no two alike .
the night before , the watch , on board one of the smaller vessels anchored near the seraglio wall , was roused by a slight splashing as of muffled oars ; the alarm was given : twelve small boats , each containing three Janizaries , were descried endeavouring to make their way through the fleet to the opposite shore of Scutari .
this manuscript will doubtless afford you the greatest pleasure ; but to me , who know him , and who hear it from his own lips with what interest and sympathy shall I read it in some future day Even now , as I commence my task , his full toned voice swells in my ears ; his lustrous eyes dwell on me with all their melancholy sweetness ; I see his thin hand raised in animation , while the lineaments of his face are irradiated by the soul within .
years will pass , and you will have visitings of despair and yet be tortured by hope .
we groped round the widened space to find the entrance , and after a time fancied that we had succeeded .
fever wild dreams somnambulism illusions of sounds a pull toward a point in the sky and now a suspicion of insane sleep talking He must stop studying , see a nerve specialist , and take himself in hand .
two I have already destroyed ; other victims await their destiny ; but you , Clerval , my friend , my benefactor &quot; The human frame could no longer support the agonies that I endured , and I was carried out of the room in strong convulsions .
the base of the bottom knob was fused to the long railing with so delicate a point of contact that several figures had been broken off and were missing .
then I noticed that the tomb &apos;s floor had an aperture down which the throng was sliding , and in a moment we were all descending an ominous staircase of rough hewn stone ; a narrow spiral staircase damp and peculiarly odorous , that wound endlessly down into the bowels of the hill past monotonous walls of dripping stone blocks and crumbling mortar .
he seized my hand , as I concluded &quot; unkind &quot; he cried , &quot; you have betrayed me &quot; then , springing forwards , with the air of one who had a right to command , he claimed the place of deputy as his own .
unable to discover its legitimate object , the popular fury at length subsided ; leaving behind it , by way of sediment , quite a medley of opinion about this unhappy affair .
I proceeded for many paces ; but still all was blackness and vacancy .
the eyes of Annie I heard some one from the interior call her &quot; Annie , darling &quot; were &quot; spiritual grey ; &quot; her hair , a light chestnut : this is all I had time to observe of her .
I see that no animal but an Ourang Outang , of the species here mentioned , could have impressed the indentations as you have traced them .
the exhibiter , therefore , finds himself at liberty to display the main compartment .
it was no consolation , that with the first winds of March the lanes were filled with violets , the fruit trees covered with blossoms , that the corn sprung up , and the leaves came out , forced by the unseasonable heat .
by then we had calmed ourselves a little with rational theories and plans for investigation , so that we could sleep through the day classes being disregarded .
Elton &apos;s translation of Hesiod &apos;s Works .
fire from airth can &apos;t burn it nohaow . &quot;
I cannot , for my soul , remember how , when , or even precisely where , I first became acquainted with the lady Ligeia .
I say I knew it well .
he is never put out unless put out of doors .
take me where you will ; where you and my children are , there shall be Windsor , and every country will be England to me .
least of all , do they thus dispose of the murdered .
she was a hired nurse , the wife of one of the turnkeys , and her countenance expressed all those bad qualities which often characterize that class .
Clara , our lovely gentle Clara , was our stay , our solace , our delight .
this latter word conveys the diddling idea in every respect except that of magnitude .
I did not think it advisable to disturb him farther just then , and nothing more was said or done until the arrival of Dr. F , who came a little before sunrise , and expressed unbounded astonishment at finding the patient still alive .
it is my business , however , simply to proceed .
we have no trace of him at present , although our exertions to discover him are unremitted ; but they will not restore my beloved William &quot; Come , dearest Victor ; you alone can console Elizabeth .
&quot; no sooner had I glanced at this letter , than I concluded it to be that of which I was in search .
how can he punish me ?
everyone then seemed frightened .
after the heats of the day , the cooling land breeze ruffled the river , and filled our little sail .
who shall paint his astonishment and rage at perceiving , as he rubbed his knuckles , that he had been only thumping them to no purpose , against the bottom of an empty box .
he thrusts his hands in his trowsers &apos; pockets .
in the next &quot; &quot; You are mistaken , &quot; he interposed , &quot; I am as well as I can expect to be under the excitement which I suffer .
shortly afterward it made me a speech , which I could hear but indistinctly without ears .
he was never weary of listening to the latter &apos;s often repeated accounts of old times , in which my father had played a distinguished part ; his keen remarks were repeated to the boy , and remembered by him ; his wit , his fascinations , his very faults were hallowed by the regret of affection ; his loss was sincerely deplored .
what he Touch and go Bullet head not able to write a word without an O in it He would soon let the jackanapes see that he was mistaken .
I dared not think that they would turn them from me with disdain and horror .
then he found a key , and I somehow believe he was able to use it to strange advantage .
&quot; and you had no punishments of any kind ? &quot;
these words are shadowy as I repeat them but they were indeed words of fire and produced a warm hope in me I , miserable wretch , to hope that tingled like pleasure in my veins .
we had arrived in England at the beginning of October , and it was now February .
your threats cannot move me to do an act of wickedness ; but they confirm me in a determination of not creating you a companion in vice .
to the police we both declared ignorance of our late companion &apos;s identity .
will you smile at the enthusiasm I express concerning this divine wanderer ?
for on my ears rang the reverberations of that shocking scream , while my nostrils revolted at the stench which filled the place .
perhaps Frank Elwood could tell him something , though he hated to ask .
of these latter , those who doubt , are your mere doubters by profession an unprofitable and disreputable tribe .
you did not take to pieces all the chairs ? &quot;
it was at the latter end of the month of September when the nights have become chill .
the carven idol was great Cthulhu , but none might say whether or not the others were precisely like him .
Professor Webb had been engaged , forty eight years before , in a tour of Greenland and Iceland in search of some Runic inscriptions which he failed to unearth ; and whilst high up on the West Greenland coast had encountered a singular tribe or cult of degenerate Esquimaux whose religion , a curious form of devil worship , chilled him with its deliberate bloodthirstiness and repulsiveness .
without warning , I heard the heavy door behind me creak slowly open upon its rusted hinges .
parchment is durable almost imperishable .
the sun is yet high in the heavens ; before it descends to hide itself behind your snowy precipices and illuminate another world , you will have heard my story and can decide .
did you not see how they had fastened up my mouth and you must know if you know any thing how vast a superfluity of breath I have to dispose of If you do not know , however , sit down and you shall see .
it iz te shicken ab te wing , und te owl ab te wing , und te imp ab te wing , und te head teuffel ab te wing .
a strange story was brought to us from the East , to which little credit would have been given , had not the fact been attested by a multitude of witnesses , in various parts of the world .
after the noble manner in which the &quot; Owl , &quot; the &quot; Toad , &quot; the &quot; Mole , &quot; had expressed themselves in respect to my ability , it was rather too much to be coolly spoken of by a thing like the &quot; Daddy Long Legs , &quot; as merely &quot; a gentleman of high genius and a scholar . &quot;
he felt himself superior in quickness of judgement to those around him : his talents , his rank and wealth made him the chief of his party , and in that station he rested not only contented but glorying , conceiving it to be the only ambition worthy for him to aim at in the world .
and at noon elfin horns rang over the ocean as Olney , dry and light footed , climbed down from the cliffs to antique Kingsport with the look of far places in his eyes .
but a deadly pallor , overspreading her face , had proved to me that my exertions to reassure her would be fruitless .
and the man was tall and stately in form , and was wrapped up from his shoulders to his feet in the toga of old Rome .
above the anthropomorphic patch of mould by the fireplace it rose ; a subtle , sickish , almost luminous vapour which as it hung trembling in the dampness seemed to develop vague and shocking suggestions of form , gradually trailing off into nebulous decay and passing up into the blackness of the great chimney with a foetor in its wake .
and I stood in the morass among the tall and the rain fell upon my head and the lilies sighed one unto the other in the solemnity of their desolation .
vegetables and bread , when they indulged in such luxuries , and even fresh water , was to be procured from the mainland , which was about five miles distant .
but even at this velocity , it would take me no more than days to reach the surface of the moon .
but these were merely memories ; he was changed since then .
we will say , then , that I am mad .
examine these similar actions as we will , we shall find them resulting solely from the spirit of the perverse .
it was infinitely faint , subtly vibrant , and unmistakably musical , but held a quality of surpassing wildness which made its impact feel like a delicate torture of my whole body .
when arising of itself when manifesting itself in a strictly spontaneous manner we should look upon it as analogous with that intuition which is the idiosyncrasy of the individual man of genius .
that illness , from its peculiarity , makes it painful to me beyond words to hear him mentioned , unless in terms of respect and affection . &quot;
the truth appeared an hour later , when a hastily assembled group of armed men trudged out to the Frye place at the head of the glen .
the house was the property of Madame L.
he even tittered shrilly when the subject of the supposed under crypts , hewn out of the solid crag that frowns on the North Sea , was brought up .
formalities were gone through by bewildered officials , abnormal details were duly kept from press and public , and men were sent to Dunwich and Aylesbury to look up property and notify any who might be heirs of the late Wilbur Whateley .
the motions of the head and eyes , and of the right arm of the figure , as well as the sound echec are produced by other mechanism in the interior , and actuated at will by the man within .
everywhere I turn I see the same figure her bloodless arms and relaxed form flung by the murderer on its bridal bier .
his face , greatly sunburnt , was more than half hidden by whisker and mustachio .
here I paused , not exactly knowing what path to pursue , when I heard the sound of voices , that induced me to conceal myself under the shade of a cypress .
as West proceeded to take preliminary steps , I was impressed by the vast intricacy of the new experiment ; an intricacy so vast that he could trust no hand less delicate than his own .
later incidents are chaotic .
my feelings were totally different from any which I had hitherto experienced , in the presence of even the most celebrated specimens of female loveliness .
the idea of it has never occurred to us , simply because of its supererogation .
he did not dissent when they told him that the animal pain of a stuck pig or dyspeptic ploughman in real life is a greater thing than the peerless beauty of Narath with its hundred carven gates and domes of chalcedony , which he dimly remembered from his dreams ; and under their guidance he cultivated a painstaking sense of pity and tragedy .
now that the race of man had lost in fact all distinction of rank , this pride was doubly fatuitous ; now that we felt a kindred , fraternal nature with all who bore the stamp of humanity , this angry reminiscence of times for ever gone , was worse than foolish .
foolish false girl that I am &quot; She looked wildly on me , and then suddenly calming herself , apologized for what she called her unmeaning words , saying that she must indeed be insane , for , while Raymond lived , she must be happy ; and then , though she still wept , she suffered me tranquilly to depart .
what are we to make of the skeletons found in the hole ? &quot; &quot; that is a question I am no more able to answer than yourself .
the Prefect made unusual exertions ; and the powers of the whole Parisian police were , of course , tasked to the utmost extent .
&quot; at twenty minutes past six o &apos;clock , the barometer showed an elevation of , feet , or five miles to a fraction .
such was the account sent by Karazza to Raymond : but a tale full of monstrous exaggerations , though founded on this , was spread by the accompanying troop among our soldiers .
yet Adrian &apos;s presence did some good ; he at once broke through the law of silence observed concerning Raymond .
evening Paper Tuesday , June .
only old Scribonius Libo seemed resigned .
Klenze , believed that the thing was of great age and artistic value , so took it from the men for himself .
in the return to life from the swoon there are two stages ; first , that of the sense of mental or spiritual ; secondly , that of the sense of physical , existence .
we floated thus for a little time , when I perceived a slight blurring and fading of the objects around us , as though some force were recalling me to earth where I least wished to go .
there must , Lord Northam whispered , have been something wrong at the start ; but it would never have come to a head if he had not explored too far .
his host was very sympathetic , and agreed that something ought to be done .
&quot; what nonsense you do talk &quot; replied the Prefect , laughing heartily .
having seen our friend properly installed in his new office , we turned our eyes towards Windsor .
Raymond was to inspire them with his beneficial will , and the mechanism of society , once systematised according to faultless rules , would never again swerve into disorder .
Troy expired at the close of the second lustrum ; and Azoth , as Aristaeus declares upon his honour as a gentleman , opened at last her gates to Psammetichus , after having barred them for the fifth part of a century .... &quot; Thou wretch thou vixen thou shrew &quot; said I to my wife on the morning after our wedding ; &quot; thou witch thou hag thou whippersnapper thou sink of iniquity thou fiery faced quintessence of all that is abominable thou thou &quot; here standing upon tiptoe , seizing her by the throat , and placing my mouth close to her ear , I was preparing to launch forth a new and more decided epithet of opprobrium , which should not fail , if ejaculated , to convince her of her insignificance , when to my extreme horror and astonishment I discovered that I had lost my breath .
the circumstance of the Automaton &apos;s playing with his left hand cannot have connexion with the operations of the machine , considered merely as such .
there was subsequently much talk among the burgesses of Ulthar .
I did hear some croaking and clattering sounds far off toward Town Square , but accomplished the passage without disaster .
the dreams are stiff frozen as they stand .
I re echoed I aided I surpassed them in volume and in strength .
when we reached the door I cautiously unbolted it and threw it open , and as the moon streamed revealingly down on the form silhouetted there , West did a peculiar thing .
Matt he got to wonderin &apos; too , an &apos; so did Cap &apos;n Obed .
before a month was over the fearless dean had become a popular hero , though he seemed unconscious of his fame as he struggled to keep from collapsing with physical fatigue and nervous exhaustion .
should the kittens be found to suffer uneasiness in an equal degree with their mother , I must consider my theory in fault , but a failure to do so I should look upon as a strong confirmation of my idea .
the erroneous idea that Ibid is the author of the Lives is so frequently met with , even among those pretending to a degree of culture , that it is worth correcting .
the fullest , if not the sole proper satisfaction of this sentiment he instinctively felt to lie in the creation of novel forms of beauty .
yes Mrs. O &apos;Trump , she went on , and I I went off .
I remember , after having witnessed the destructive effects of a fire , I could not even behold a small one in a stove , without a sensation of fear .
all I could do was to shut and bolt the open connecting door , as well as its mate on the opposite side pushing a bedstead against the one and a bureau against the other , and moving a washstand in front of the hall door .
I have often wondered if all the objects of the professor &apos;s questioning felt as puzzled as did this fraction .
instead , I reflected , I would prepare by getting some bootleg liquor at a place where the grocery boy had told me it was plentiful .
the sky became clouded , but the air was pure , although chilled by the northeast breeze that was then rising .
thus speaking , Fortunato possessed himself of my arm .
their suspension put me to ruinous inconvenience .
tempora mutantur excuse me for quoting the Etruscan .
with an air of absence he was playing with her Auburn locks , while she leaned on him ; twice I turned back , only to look again on this matchless pair .
that journal , however , having pronounced it &quot; twattle &quot; in the &quot; Monthly Notices to Correspondents , &quot; I reheaded the paper &quot; &apos; Hey Diddle Diddle , &apos; by ThingumBob , Esq . , Author of the Ode on &apos; The Oil of Bob , &apos; and editor of the &apos; Snapping Turtle . &apos; &quot; with this amendment , I re enclosed it to the &quot; Goosetherumfoodle , &quot; and , while I awaited a reply , published daily , in the &quot; Turtle , &quot; six columns of what may be termed philosophical and analytical investigation of the literary merits of the &quot; Goosetherumfoodle , &quot; as well as of the personal character of the editor of the &quot; Goosetherumfoodle . &quot;
I found D at home , yawning , lounging , and dawdling , as usual , and pretending to be in the last extremity of ennui .
I dare not expect such success , yet I cannot bear to look on the reverse of the picture .
when I slammed the door after them West came downstairs and looked at the box .
but if my friendship can make you look on life with less disgust , beware how you injure it with suspicion .
if the Frenchman in question is indeed , as I suppose , innocent of this atrocity , this advertisement which I left last night , upon our return home , at the office of &apos; Le Monde , &apos; a paper devoted to the shipping interest , and much sought by sailors , will bring him to our residence . &quot;
our mode of life was now totally altered .
but for my deep seated impressions that treasure was here somewhere actually buried , we might have had all our labor in vain . &quot;
in such houses have dwelt generations of strange people , whose like the world has never seen .
a door about ten inches square is thrown open in the loins of the figure , and a smaller one also in the left thigh .
this set him off at a tangent ; and just at the epoch of this story for story it is getting to be after all my grand uncle Rumgudgeon was accessible and pacific only upon points which happened to chime in with the caprioles of the hobby he was riding .
Wade Jermyn &apos;s son Philip was a highly peculiar person .
now I am like this . &quot; &quot; what do you mean , you damned old fool ? &quot; shouted Trever .
I am lonely without that gentle soul whose long years were filled only with honour , virtue , good taste , benevolence , and learning .
the lady returns and expresses some little dissatisfaction with her sister and sister in law , because they happen to have paid forty or fifty dollars for a fac simile of her diamond ring a fac simile made out of real pinch beck and unquestionable paste .
it was Monsieur Maillard himself .
I saw , too , for a few moments of delirious horror , the soft and nearly imperceptible waving of the sable draperies which enwrapped the walls of the apartment .
still nothing appeared .
grandeur in any of its moods , but especially in that of extent , startles , excites and then fatigues , depresses .
this was an extensive and magnificent structure , the creation of the prince &apos;s own eccentric yet august taste .
with these words he hurled the decanter , full of wine , against the mirror which hung directly opposite Hermann ; striking the reflection of his person with great precision , and of course shattering the glass into fragments .
as I have already admitted , my superior , old Dr. Fenton , denies the reality of everything I have related .
it is a mere guess a very silly one and no more .
then his countenance suddenly darkened , and in that shrill tone peculiar to himself , he cried , &quot; I fought a good battle last night ; higher conquest the plains of Greece never saw me achieve .
&quot; oh yes &quot; And here the Prefect , producing a memorandum book proceeded to read aloud a minute account of the internal , and especially of the external appearance of the missing document .
do you mean to say that the Creator is not God ?
but see , amid the mimic rout , A crawling shape intrude A blood red thing that writhes from out The scenic solitude It writhes it writhes with mortal pangs The mimes become its food , And the seraphs sob at vermin fangs In human gore imbued .
this unexpected turn in the debate was quickly communicated to Adrian .
old Bugs , obtaining a firmer hold on his mop , began to wield it like the javelin of a Macedonian hoplite , and soon cleared a considerable space around himself , meanwhile shouting various disconnected bits of quotation , among which was prominently repeated , &quot; . . . the sons of Belial , blown with insolence and wine . &quot;
&quot; I repeat that it is no more than fact , that the larger portion of all truth has sprung from the collateral ; and it is but in accordance with the spirit of the principle involved in this fact , that I would divert inquiry , in the present case , from the trodden and hitherto unfruitful ground of the event itself , to the contemporary circumstances which surround it .
this troubled state yielded by degrees , to sullen animosity , and depression of spirits .
had I been alone , I should have listened to him with a wish to hear reason , but when he endeavoured to vanquish me in my own territory , with my own weapons , he put me on my mettle , and the event was such as all might have expected . &quot;
some strangers had even disappeared .
I am the assassin of those most innocent victims ; they died by my machinations .
Plodding back to town and getting some coffee at a soda fountain , he dragged himself into the public library and browsed aimlessly among the lighter magazines .
then everybody on the line could hear Cha &apos;ncey an &apos; ol &apos; Seth Bishop a yellin &apos; tew , an &apos; Sally was shriekin &apos; aout that suthin &apos; heavy hed struck the haouse not lightnin &apos; nor nothin &apos; , but suthin &apos; heavy agin the front , that kep &apos; a launchin &apos; itself agin an &apos; agin , though ye couldn &apos;t see nothin &apos; aout the front winders .
it was necessary that some immediate exertion be made ; yet the turret was altogether apart from the portion of the abbey tenanted by the servants there were none within call I had no means of summoning them to my aid without leaving the room for many minutes and this I could not venture to do .
Adrian also , notwithstanding his recluse habits and theories , so adverse to the spirit of party , had many friends , and they were easily induced to vote for a candidate of his selection .
the feeling of perfect health which I enjoyed , assured me that I was free from contagion .
I landed safely on the loose slates of the steep roof , and succeeded in gaining the gaping black skylight without a slip .
the right , in its upper portion , was also partially , if not thoroughly , ossified , while the lower region was merely a mass of purulent tubercles , running one into another .
if the rapture of assured sympathy was theirs , I enjoyed that of restored hope .
how remarkably well you are looking to day But I have received a pipe of what passes for Amontillado , and I have my doubts . &quot;
I had known that he now remained mostly shut in the attic laboratory with that accursed electrical machine , eating little and excluding even the servants , but I had not thought that a brief period of ten weeks could so alter and disfigure any human creature .
our care was gravely minute ; every cottage was again entered , every hillside dugout again searched for bodies , every thorny foot of adjacent slope again scanned for dens and caves , but all without result .
&quot; him rotten , massa , sure nuff , &quot; replied the negro in a few moments , &quot; but not so berry rotten as mought be .
I had no opportunity of seeing Madame Lalande closely during daylight ; and , at her musical soiree , my silly weakness in refusing the aid of glasses effectually prevented me from making a discovery of her age .
I am not more certain that I breathe , than that the assurance of the wrong or error of any action is often the one unconquerable force which impels us , and alone impels us to its prosecution .
free the air was not , or the street silent .
there was too much responsiblity in giving such a being the key to such blasphemous outer spheres .
I stared at the speaker in mute astonishment .
on the Sunday following , the grounds of the cemetery were , as usual , much thronged with visiters , and about noon an intense excitement was created by the declaration of a peasant that , while sitting upon the grave of the officer , he had distinctly felt a commotion of the earth , as if occasioned by some one struggling beneath .
in all , the organs vary with the features of the place tenanted .
and I call on you , spirits of the dead , and on you , wandering ministers of vengeance , to aid and conduct me in my work .
joy strews the hard couch with roses , and makes labour ease .
and I looked again , at closer range , and saw that the city was greater than any city I had known or dreamed of before .
vat you know about de Moissart ? &quot;
but I fear , from what you have yourself described to be his properties , that this will prove impracticable ; and thus , while every proper measure is pursued , you should make up your mind to disappointment . &quot;
then Michael Angelo was by no means original in his couplet &apos; non ha l &apos;ottimo artista alcun concetto che un marmo solo in se non circunscriva . &apos; &quot;
in the market place they told fortunes for silver , and bought gay beads from the merchants .
and then she shewed him how , by executing various designs and paintings , she earned a pittance for her support .
&quot; we must not judge of the means , &quot; said Dupin , &quot; by this shell of an examination .
I opened it with apathy ; the theory which he attempts to demonstrate and the wonderful facts which he relates soon changed this feeling into enthusiasm .
yet after he came home for the last time Sir Wade would speak of such matters with a shudderingly uncanny zest , mostly after his third glass at the knight &apos;s Head ; boasting of what he had found in the jungle and of how he had dwelt among terrible ruins known only to him .
rather stale that , to be sure , but , if properly dressed and dished up , will look quite as fresh as ever .
&quot; you will hardly persist now , &quot; said I smiling , &quot; that the whole of your adventure was not a dream .
to do this , he must gain the favour of the chief land holders , the nobility of the country ; and these were his vowed enemies he must conciliate them by abandoning his favourite scheme of equalization ; he must confirm them in their manorial rights ; he must sell his cherished plans for the permanent good of his country , for temporary relief .
there have been many attempts at solving the mystery of the Automaton .
the Countess of Windsor , Ex Queen of England , returned from Germany .
from the one to the northwest issued a rivulet , which came , gently murmuring and slightly foaming , down the ravine , until it dashed against the group of rocks out of which sprang the insulated hickory .
the poor old servant who was with me endeavoured to persuade me to remain here and to let him go alone I shook my head silently and sadly ; sick almost to death I leant upon his arm , and as there was no road for a chaise dragged my weary steps across the desolate downs to meet my fate , now too certain for the agony of doubt .
it might have been a woman &apos;s .
the oppression of the Darkness uplifted itself from my bosom .
in moments of excitement the orbs grew bright to a degree almost inconceivable ; seeming to emit luminous rays , not of a reflected but of an intrinsic lustre , as does a candle or the sun ; yet their ordinary condition was so totally vapid , filmy , and dull as to convey the idea of the eyes of a long interred corpse .
he had even wondered , at Sawyer &apos;s funeral , how the vindictive farmer had managed to lie straight in a box so closely akin to that of the diminutive Fenner .
it was even with difficulty that I could prevent him from following me through the streets .
Screamingly sentient , dumbly delirious , only the gods that were can tell .
Grenier , fired with virtuous rage at the possession of this holy symbol by a Protestant , crushed van Schaack &apos;s head one night with an axe and escaped to the north with his booty ; soon , however , being robbed and slain by the half breed voyageur Michel Savard , who took the skull despite the illiteracy which prevented his recognising it to add to a collection of similar but more recent material .
of this , however , I was not aware ; although , in the present instance , I saw clearly that something of a whimsical nature was upon the tapis with my friend , and that Hermann was its especial object .
the value of the jewels we found more difficulty in estimating .
there were three fellows in particular who worried me beyond endurance , keeping watch continually about my door , and threatening me with the law .
the result was that Bedloe , who was wealthy , had made an arrangement with Dr. Templeton , by which the latter , in consideration of a liberal annual allowance , had consented to devote his time and medical experience exclusively to the care of the invalid .
I thought , too , that I perceived the traces of sorrow in her countenance , which was excessively , although to my taste , not unpleasingly , pale .
no one seemed able to place the subject , and all wondered that the drug degraded derelict should have such a portrait in his possession that is , all but the bank defaulter , who was meanwhile eyeing the intruding bluecoats rather uneasily .
if my wearied soul flagged in its career , I thought of my loved home , of the casket that contained my treasures , of the kiss of love and the filial caress , while my eyes were moistened by purest dew , and my heart was at once softened and refreshed by thrilling tenderness .
though I should have trouble in managing the double hatches alone , I believed I could overcome all obstacles with my scientific skill and actually walk about the dead city in person .
as I placed my foot upon the upper step of the companion ladder , I was startled by a loud , humming noise , like that occasioned by the rapid revolution of a mill wheel , and before I could ascertain its meaning , I found the ship quivering to its centre .
it was a troop sent by Karazza , the admiral ; they bore dispatches to the Lord General .
her life consecrated to him , was a slight sacrifice to reward his choice , but was not that sufficient Did he need any gratification that she was unable to bestow ?
they &apos; insert &apos; every month just such stuff .
at Chalk farm , the next morning , I shot off his nose and then called upon my friends .
I walked about the isle like a restless spectre , separated from all it loved and miserable in the separation .
had Alexander not been Alexander , he would have been Diogenes ; and the Duc assured his antagonist in taking leave , &quot; que s &apos;il n &apos;eût été De L &apos;Omelette il n &apos;aurait point d &apos;objection d &apos;être le diable . &quot;
near the corner of fall Street I began to see scattered groups of furtive whisperers , and when I finally reached the Square I saw that almost all the loiterers were congregated around the door of the Gilman House .
the inquisitorial vengeance had been hurried by my two fold escape , and there was to be no more dallying with the King of terrors .
I do not remember exactly how I managed to reach the motor car , start it , and slip unobserved back to the village ; for I retain no distinct impression save of wild armed titan trees , daemoniac mutterings of thunder , and Charonian shadows athwart the low mounds that dotted and streaked the region .
old Bugs straightened up before the astonished Trever , and in a mild and cultivated voice said , &quot; Do not do this thing .
probably you do not ; I will relate her history , therefore in a few words .
trees gigantic and aged grew near ; before the gate I discerned a crowd of moving human figures with intense curiosity I lifted my glass to my eye .
such a lot the gods gave to me to me , the dazed , the disappointed ; the barren , the broken .
after some business transactions , hurried through in his ordinary manner , he produces a letter somewhat similar to the one in question , opens it , pretends to read it , and then places it in close juxtaposition to the other .
mad indeed would I be to expect it , in a case where my very senses reject their own evidence .
at first , through bashfulness the result of inexperience I was a little put out by a certain inconsistency a certain air of the bizarre , as we say in France , worn by the composition as a whole .
that identity which is termed personal , Mr. Locke , I think , truly defines to consist in the saneness of rational being .
he now explained the mystery ; showing that the volume , as it appeared prima facie , was written upon the plan of the nonsense verses of du Bartas ; that is to say , the language was ingeniously framed so as to present to the ear all the outward signs of intelligibility , and even of profundity , while in fact not a shadow of meaning existed .
when he appeared , whole towns poured forth their population to meet him ; new songs were adapted to their national airs , whose themes were his glory , valour , and munificence .
at length for my seared and writhing body there was no longer an inch of foothold on the firm floor of the prison .
we employed only two days in our preparations , and made good use of them .
Dupin , sitting steadily in his accustomed arm chair , was the embodiment of respectful attention .
the ex queen of England had , even during infancy , endeavoured to implant daring and ambitious designs in the mind of her son .
haughty , yet trembling to every demonstration of respect ; ambitious , but too proud to shew his ambition ; willing to achieve honour , yet a votary of pleasure , he entered upon life .
our two boys quietly slept ; once , before our road turned from the view , I looked back on the castle .
its vacillating effulgence seems to say that its state , even like ours upon earth , is wavering and inconstant ; it fears , methinks , and it loves . &quot;
&quot; at first &quot; said he , &quot; I could not bear to think of my poor little girl ; but afterwards as grief wore off and hope again revisited me I could only turn to her , and amidst cities and desarts her little fairy form , such as I imagined it , for ever flitted before me .
his end was very revolting .
and to make matters still more distressing , the rascally little scape grace in the steeple was evidently exerting himself to the utmost .
&quot; well now , Jupiter , do exactly as I tell you do you hear ? &quot; &quot; yes , massa . &quot;
you will understand me to say , then , that I wish you to wear spectacles ; ah , hush you have already consented to wear them , for my sake .
the duration of the contest is usually limited to half an hour , but if it be not finished at the expiration of this period , and the antagonist still contend that he can beat the Automaton , M. Maelzel has seldom any objection to continue it .
in view of such a gale the broad Atlantic becomes a mere lake .
I was unwilling to disturb his labours , and waited , watching the ingress and egress of the petitioners .
if perchance some stricken Asiatic come among us , plague dies with him , uncommunicated and innoxious .
my amusements were simple and very innocent ; I fed the birds who built on the pines or among the ivy that covered the wall of my little garden , and they soon knew me : the bolder ones pecked the crumbs from my hands and perched on my fingers to sing their thankfulness .
there &apos;s a mirror up at the other end of the room , and I &apos;m going to take you to it .
the door was the only conceivable egress , for there was no possible foothold outside the narrow window .
in the brief account of Von Kempelen which appeared in the &apos; Home Journal , &apos; and has since been extensively copied , several misapprehensions of the German original seem to have been made by the translator , who professes to have taken the passage from a late number of the Presburg &apos; Schnellpost.&apos;
with what manner of far reaching tentacles did it prey ?
three men were swept up by the flabby claws before anybody turned .
all that I should express would be inadequate and feeble .
he sneers in your face .
its three trunks separated from the parent at about three feet from the soil , and diverging very slightly and gradually , were not more than four feet apart at the point where the largest stem shot out into foliage : this was at an elevation of about eighty feet .
he stretched out to me his other hand ; I discerned the trace of manacles on his bared wrist .
you cannot fail to have remarked the extreme laxity of the examination of the corpse .
in about a month afterwards he paid us another visit , and found us occupied very nearly as before .
and so numerous are the recorded troubles in insane asylums , that only a miracle can have stopped the medical fraternity from noting strange parallelisms and drawing mystified conclusions .
&quot; by no means , if , when the article is deposited , a sufficient wadding of cotton be placed around it .
the Countess can never forget that she has been a queen , and she disdains to leave a diminished inheritance to her children ; her power and my wit will rebuild the throne , and this brow will be clasped by a kingly diadem .
and the heaven became livid with the violence of the tempest and the rain beat upon the head of the man and the floods of the river came down and the river was tormented into foam and the water lilies shrieked within their beds and the forest crumbled before the wind and the thunder rolled and the lightning fell and the rock rocked to its foundation .
she had from her birth lived a retired life .
it is inconceivable how rich a sentiment of satisfaction arose in my bosom as I reflected upon my absolute security .
scalping is a rough process after all ; but then you can procure such a capital scratch at De L &apos;Orme &apos;s . &quot;
with it my reason had nothing to do .
he reminds me how often the same accidents have happened to other navigators who have attempted this sea , and in spite of myself , he fills me with cheerful auguries .
Jupiter , with his accustomed caution , before seizing the insect , which had flown towards him , looked about him for a leaf , or something of that nature , by which to take hold of it .
in this dearth of sympathy , he had recourse to his almost infant son ; and the early development of talent and sensibility rendered Adrian no unfitting depository of his father &apos;s confidence .
the only sign that life had been here , was the perfect snow white skeleton of a goat , which had probably not perceived the opening as it grazed on the hill above , and had fallen headlong .
but I paid these people no attention whatever I just stepped into the shop of an artist .
then Kuranes walked through the Street of Pillars to the seaward wall , where gathered the traders and sailors , and strange men from the regions where the sea meets the sky .
I did not feel thus franticly when first I knew that the holy name of father was become a curse to me : but my lonely life inspired me with wild thoughts ; and then when I saw Woodville day after day he tried to win my confidence and I never dared give words to my dark tale , I was impressed more strongly with the withering fear that I was in truth a marked creature , a pariah , only fit for death .
we could no longer say , This we will do , and this we will leave undone .
the film of the shadow has already passed from off your eyes .
all night in Kingsport they watched that lofty cliff when the storm and the mists gave them glimpses of it , and when toward the small hours the little dim windows went dark they whispered of dread and disaster .
recognising the bubbling evil as no substance reachable by matter or material chemistry , and therefore ignoring the flame thrower which loomed on my left , I threw on the current of the Crookes tube apparatus , and focussed toward that scene of immortal blasphemousness the strongest ether radiations which man &apos;s art can arouse from the spaces and fluids of Nature .
as it descended , its dusky rays crossed the brilliant ones of the sun , and deadened or distorted them .
for some minutes he continued to scrutinize the drawing minutely where he sat .
a figure is seen habited as a Turk , and seated , with its legs crossed , at a large box apparently of maple wood , which serves it as a table .
how then can you understand me ?
I perceived that the design was to drop a bullet from the left eye of the skull , and that a bee line , or , in other words , a straight line , drawn from the nearest point of the trunk through &apos; the shot , &apos; or the spot where the bullet fell , and thence extended to a distance of fifty feet , would indicate a definite point and beneath this point I thought it at least possible that a deposit of value lay concealed . &quot;
thus to have a retentive memory , and to proceed by &quot; the book , &quot; are points commonly regarded as the sum total of good playing .
glancing up at the window I had left , I observed it was still dark , though far across the crumbling chimneys to the north I could see lights ominously blazing in the Order of Dagon Hall , the Baptist church , and the Congregational church which I recalled so shiveringly .
such were my reflections during the first two or three days of my residence at Ingolstadt , which were chiefly spent in becoming acquainted with the localities and the principal residents in my new abode .
from the closed loft above the slanting ceiling he thought he heard a faint scratching and padding , but he was too disorganised even to mind it .
would the firm Fenner casket have caved in so readily ?
I understood the full horrors of the murder at once .
the danger of the soothing system was , at all times , appalling ; and its advantages have been much overrated .
&quot; you mean , to punctuate it ? &quot;
but for the necessity of the rudimental , prior to the ultimate life , there would have been no bodies such as these .
but she will be tried today , and you will then hear all . &quot;
what followed , I shall never positively know .
we object , however , to the whole verbose description of the manner in which the partitions are shifted , to accommodate the movements of the person concealed .
fortunately the village was small and the death rate low , so that it was possible to give all of Birch &apos;s inanimate charges a temporary haven in the single antiquated receiving tomb .
there are certain themes of which the interest is all absorbing , but which are too entirely horrible for the purposes of legitimate fiction .
our cellar vigil began at p.m. , daylight saving time , and as it continued we found no promise of pertinent developments .
that morning the mirror definitely told me I had acquired the Innsmouth look .
but I wudn &apos;t take the third Oath I &apos;d a died ruther &apos;n take that &quot; It got wuss araound Civil War time , when children born senct &apos; forty six begun to grow up some of &apos; em , that is .
he persecuted the cook to make him up into pies a thing which the cook indignantly refused to do .
I took interest in nothing .
his father injured my father his father , unassailable on his throne , dared despise him who only stooped beneath himself , when he deigned to associate with the royal ingrate .
why , not General John A. B. C. ? dreadful business that of the Bugaboos , wasn &apos;t it ?
he was particularly gay , playing with his child , and turning to sport every word that was uttered .
&quot; I have counted the hours of her life , &quot; said he ; &quot; one month , and she falls .
I do not hesitate to say that I am amazed , and can scarcely credit my senses .
nothing I had before undergone could compare in terror with what I now saw ; with the bizarre marvels that sight implied .
it was given out by Monsieur Le Blanc and her mother , that she had merely been on a visit to some friend in the country ; and the affair was speedily hushed up .
my excessive fatigue induced me to remain prostrate ; and sleep soon overtook me as I lay .
the sight of this house , these fields and woods which my first love inhabited seems to have encreased it : in my madness I dared say to myself Diana died to give her birth ; her mother &apos;s spirit was transferred into her frame , and she ought to be as Diana to me .
it is a doubtful point , also , whether the body would be so soon afloat , even were it thrown in after having been dead two days .
Mazurewicz had told long , rambling stories about the ghost of old Keziah and the furry , sharp fanged , nuzzling thing , and had said he was so badly haunted at times that only his silver crucifix given him for the purpose by Father Iwanicki of St. Stanislaus &apos; Church could bring him relief .
he locked away the Necronomicon with a shudder of disgust , but the room still reeked with an unholy and unidentifiable stench .
at first his countenance was illuminated with pleasure , but as he continued , Thoughtfulness and sadness succeeded ; at length , laying aside the instrument , he sat absorbed in reflection .
his evident object , I have already said , is to reduce , as much as possible , the interval between Marie &apos;s disappearance and the finding of the corpse .
it was not the cry of a drunken man .
before , I looked upon the accounts of vice and injustice that I read in books or heard from others as tales of ancient days or imaginary evils ; at least they were remote and more familiar to reason than to the imagination ; but now misery has come home , and men appear to me as monsters thirsting for each other &apos;s blood .
the coachman whipped his horses , and the carriage was driven back to its original position .
begone I am firm , and your words will only exasperate my rage . &quot;
his cunning , too , is proverbial and great .
&apos;The bloom has vanished from my life &apos; there is no morning to this all investing night ; no rising to the set sun of love .
I awoke to a new life as one who dies in hope might wake in Hell .
collate this with the date of the fifth extract made by myself from the newspapers .
stay hold him seize him he is about to spring overboard There I knew it he is over &quot; As the captain said this , Mr. Wyatt , in fact , sprang from the boat , and , as we were yet in the lee of the wreck , succeeded , by almost superhuman exertion , in getting hold of a rope which hung from the fore chains .
to three or four , the limbs of the corpse would have afforded not only a sufficient , but the best possible hold .
travel was only a mockery ; and even the Great War stirred him but little , though he served from the first in the Foreign Legion of France .
I desired to reply , to acknowledge his goodness , accept his proffered friendship ; but words , fitting words , were not afforded to the rough mountaineer ; I would have held out my hand , but its guilty stain restrained me .
it was not thus with Felix .
having at length seemingly succeeded , he reached a decanter which stood near him , saying as he held it firmly clenched &quot; The language you have thought proper to employ , Mynheer Hermann , in addressing yourself to me , is objectionable in so many particulars , that I have neither temper nor time for specification .
the police , however , kept a strict watch upon his movements , and thus discovered that he left home frequently , taking always the same road , and invariably giving his watchers the slip in the neighborhood of that labyrinth of narrow and crooked passages known by the flash name of the &apos; Dondergat.&apos;
there is something hideous in it , but that is what I did .
I was heated with exercise and sat near the table .
it was nothing on which I would naturally have stumbled in the course of my daily round , for it was an old number of an Australian journal , the Sydney Bulletin for April , .
the police were now entirely satisfied that egress had not been in these directions .
Paul Choynski thought he heard sounds in the halls and on the stairs at night , and claimed that his door had been softly tried , while Mrs. Dombrowski vowed she had seen Brown Jenkin for the first time since All Hallows .
but the autumn moon shone weak and pale , and we could not be sure .
fourteen passengers , with the captain , remained on board , resolving to trust their fortunes to the jolly boat at the stern .
I now noticed the floor , too , which was of stone .
he then drew a pistol from his bosom and placed it , without the least flurry , upon the table .
he evidently prided himself much upon every inch of his personal appearance , but took more especial delight in calling attention to his gaudy colored surtout .
Belial sent thee , my Inspector of cemeteries .
an arrangement immediately suggestive of the word &apos; thirteen , &apos; and again furnishing us with two new characters , i and n , represented by and .
&quot; you will perceive , &quot; said Templeton , &quot; the date of this picture it is here , scarcely visible , in this corner .
I knew they reached a suitable spot on the grass outside , for I had tested them .
the square of the Campanile lay silent and deserted , and the lights in the old Ducal Palace were dying fast away .
never could I tell , try as I might , what it actually was that I saw ; nor could the still face tell , for although it must have seen more than I did , it will never speak again .
but try as Williams would , he could not make his neighbour speak of anything profound or hidden .
even the grossly ignorant aroused their sluggish capacities to such considerations .
the old began to point at me as an example , the young to wonder at me as a being distinct from themselves ; I hated them , and began , last and worst degradation , to hate myself .
&quot; I presume , &quot; I said , &quot; you have authority for this spelling , but I have always supposed the name to be written with an e at the end . &quot;
it was early dawn , and the air , impregnated with freshest odour , seemed in idle mockery to play with our banners , and bore onwards towards the enemy the music of the bands , the neighings of the horses , and regular step of the infantry .
the negative merit suggested appertains to that hobbling criticism which , in letters , would elevate Addison into apotheosis .
&quot; silence , little foolish thing , &quot; replied her mother , &quot; and remember any one that mentions London is sent to Coventry for an hour . &quot;
while her husband lived , this feeling was regarded by her as a crime , repressed , repented of .
what I have dared relate of my experiences within the vault has brought me only pitying smiles .
pale as the snow that showered about her , with clasped hands , Idris stood before me .
the fire place was nearly filled with a vase of brilliant geranium .
and when I , who was colder and more scientific than the rest , mumbled a trembling protest about &quot; imposture &quot; and &quot; static electricity &quot; , Nyarlathotep drave us all out , down the dizzy stairs into the damp , hot , deserted midnight streets .
it was like the others , yet incalculably denser ; a sticky , clammy mass , if such terms can be applied to analogous qualities in a non material sphere .
every thing would depend upon the choice of a Protector , and the elections of the ensuing year .
yet my heart overflowed with kindness and the love of virtue .
he replied that , in fact , unless I had personal knowledge of the superintendent , Monsieur Maillard , or some credential in the way of a letter , a difficulty might be found to exist , as the regulations of these private mad houses were more rigid than the public hospital laws .
had conversed with both frequently .
the poor creature clung closer to me , as she saw with what heartless haste they bore the dead from the wards , and took them into a room , whose half opened door displayed a number of corpses , horrible to behold by one unaccustomed to such scenes .
the ticking of the machinery amused me .
the room lay in a high turret of the castellated abbey , was pentagonal in shape , and of capacious size .
all this was scarcely more than justice , but it was , I confess , rather more than I had expected : I acknowledged this , be it observed , to the everlasting disgrace of my country and of mankind .
had never seen any person enter the door except the old lady and her daughter , a porter once or twice , and a physician some eight or ten times .
he was gloomy , even beyond his usual habit in fact he was morose but in him I was prepared for eccentricity .
I see the sun rise one hour before you do .
something unusual some change which , at first , I could not appreciate distinctly it was obvious , had taken place in the apartment .
and as I walked by the shallow crystal stream I saw unwonted ripples tipped with yellow light , as if those placid waters were drawn on in resistless currents to strange oceans that are not in the world .
our soldiers received the word , and advanced to quickest time , but in perfect order : their uniform dresses , the gleam of their polished arms , their silence , and looks of sullen hate , were more appalling than the savage clamour of our innumerous foe .
we scarcely knew whether to haunt it in spectral fascination , or to shun it for the sake of our souls and our sanity .
you see the creatures that form what men call the pure air and the blue sky ?
his gray hairs are records of the past , and his grayer eyes are Sybils of the future .
I perceived that it must be connected with his ailment , and shuddered when I reflected on what that ailment might be .
that comes aout on the upper rud mighty nigh Seth &apos;s a leetle t &apos;other side . &quot;
we lay to a few minutes to ask the cutter some questions , and learned , among other glorious news , that civil war is raging in Africa , while the plague is doing its good work beautifully both in Yurope and Ayesher .
but on every hand I was disappointed ; since all that I found were vast shelves of marble , bearing odious oblong boxes of disturbing size .
by a wild sulphurous lustre , the origin of which I could not at first determine , I was enabled to see the extent and aspect of the prison .
the Italian had mentioned the name of the spot for which they were bound , and after her death the woman of the house in which they had lived took care that Safie should arrive in safety at the cottage of her lover . &quot;
I would have withstood his request ; but I had seen the good he diffused ; I felt that his resolves were not to be shaken , so , with an heavy heart , I consented to do as he asked .
&quot; devil , cease ; and do not poison the air with these sounds of malice .
I am alone quite alone in the world the blight of misfortune has passed over me and withered me ; I know that I am about to die and I feel happy joyous .
are the happy days of mutual love which have passed to be to me as a dream never to return ?
it was already one in the morning ; the rain pattered dismally against the panes , and my candle was nearly burnt out , when , by the glimmer of the half extinguished light , I saw the dull yellow eye of the creature open ; it breathed hard , and a convulsive motion agitated its limbs .
you come to us now to share a misery which nothing can alleviate ; yet your presence will , I hope , revive our father , who seems sinking under his misfortune ; and your persuasions will induce poor Elizabeth to cease her vain and tormenting self accusations .
I thought of the promise of virtues which he had displayed on the opening of his existence and the subsequent blight of all kindly feeling by the loathing and scorn which his protectors had manifested towards him .
I was unwilling to quit the sight of those that remained to me , and above all , I desired to see my sweet Elizabeth in some degree consoled .
and there are one or two stars in heaven one especially , a star of the sixth magnitude , double and changeable , to be found near the large star in Lyra in a telescopic scrutiny of which I have been made aware of the feeling .
from that hour , nobody is proved to have seen her .
let your sweet spirit revive ; you cannot die near me : what is death ?
a wild change had come over all men ; and the first sense of pain was the wild signal for general lamentation and horror .
I inquired &quot; one of your own invention ? &quot;
as it was , I lived ungazed at and unmolested , hardly thanked for the pittance of food and clothes which I gave , so much does suffering blunt even the coarsest sensations of men .
on the ground were halls as vast and splendid as those of the palaces ; where gathered throngs in worship of Zo Kalar and Tamash and Lobon , the chief gods of Sarnath , whose incense enveloped shrines were as the thrones of monarchs .
the writing was in a system of hieroglyphics unknown to me , and unlike anything I had ever seen in books ; consisting for the most part of conventionalised aquatic symbols such as fishes , eels , octopi , crustaceans , molluscs , whales , and the like .
to this piece of impudence , cruelty and affectation , I could reply only by ejaculating the monosyllable &quot; Help &quot; &quot; Elp &quot; echoed the ruffian &quot; not I. dare iz te pottle elp yourself , und pe tam &apos;d &quot; With these words he let fall a heavy bottle of Kirschenwasser which , dropping precisely upon the crown of my head , caused me to imagine that my brains were entirely knocked out .
I have long been silent ; long even to sickness have I desired to speak to you , and submit my soul , my life , my entire being to you .
at this time where but a hair &apos;s line separated the living from the dead , I feared that our friend had become a victim to the all embracing evil .
he wondered who she was , and what had been near her rattling the tin can in a rubbish heap at the mouth of a squalid courtyard .
Idris saw me : with light step she advanced ; as I folded her in my arms , feeling , as I did , that I thus enclosed what was to me a world , yet frail as the waterdrop which the noon day sun will drink from the water lily &apos;s cup ; tears filled my eyes , unwont to be thus moistened .
why this is the very luxury of sorrow thus one might go on from day to day contriving new extravagances , revelling in the paraphernalia of woe , wedded to all the appurtenances of despair .
after some days spent in listless indolence , during which I traversed many leagues , I arrived at Strasbourg , where I waited two days for Clerval .
suddenly a perspiration broke out on the sleeper &apos;s forehead , and he leaped abruptly up , half awake .
whether anybody had ever managed to do this , one could hardly conjecture with any degree of authority .
&quot; I renounce my office , I abdicate my power assume it who will &quot; &quot; Let him assume it , &quot; exclaimed Adrian , &quot; who can pronounce himself , or whom the world will pronounce to be your superior .
look here , Jupiter , do you hear me ? &quot; &quot; yes , massa , needn &apos;t hollo at poor nigger dat style . &quot;
what impression have I made upon your fancy ? &quot;
the sun had far descended , and I still sat on the shore , satisfying my appetite , which had become ravenous , with an oaten cake , when I saw a fishing boat land close to me , and one of the men brought me a packet ; it contained letters from Geneva , and one from Clerval entreating me to join him .
CHAPTER We were brought up together ; there was not quite a year difference in our ages .
electricity must now be saved for emergencies .
but on he went , and when he danced back to the house that night he offered no excuses for his lateness , nor heeded in the least the reproofs he gained for ignoring the noontide dinner horn altogether .
at times however the spirit of life was awakened by these employments ; the sun , the refreshing breeze , the sweet smell of the hay , the rustling leaves and prattling rivulets brought repose to the agitated bosom , and bestowed a feeling akin to happiness on the apprehensive .
but just now of prime significance was the fetish which this cult had cherished , and around which they danced when the aurora leaped high over the ice cliffs .
you might well have been amazed .
in the evening we released him , and he went about his duties silently .
it was a novelty , and by no means an ungrateful one .
oh God what could I do ?
spurred on by a voice which must have come from the hideous soul of the forest , I resolved to enter the beckoning gloom in spite of the ponderous chains which barred my passage .
I again placed before my eyes , as a model , the brilliant stanzas on &quot; The Oil of Bob &quot; by the editor of the &quot; Gad Fly , &quot; and resolved to construct an Ode on the same sublime theme , in rivalry of what had already been done .
so perhaps were the placid skies ; for they quickly veiled themselves in mist , and in this change assisted the swift disappearance of twilight usual in the south ; heavy masses of cloud floated up from the south east , and red and turbid lightning shot from their dark edges ; the rushing wind disturbed the garments of the dead , and was chilled as it passed over their icy forms .
I replied that I could not answer with any degree of certainty , for the ice had not broken until near midnight , and the traveller might have arrived at a place of safety before that time ; but of this I could not judge .
&quot; treason &quot; muttered the gentleman with his jaws tied up .
thus I had no relief to expect from my associates .
hunger suddenly came acutely upon me .
I now lay upon my back , and at full length , on a species of low framework of wood .
later in the day I watched Barry in the library poring over his plans for the great work which was to begin on the morrow , and for the first time felt a touch of the same kind of fear that had driven the peasants away .
he had been familiar with every species of human misery , and had for ever found his powers inadequate , his aid of small avail .
urged thus far , I had no choice but to adapt my nature to an element which I had willingly chosen .
dew was denied ; herbage and flowers there were none ; the very trees drooped ; and summer assumed the blighted appearance of winter , as it went forth in silence and flame to abridge the means of sustenance to man .
this consideration might be supposed to operate upon him now at this late period since it has been given in evidence that he was seen with Marie but it would have had no force at the period of the deed .
then there will be others .
this only for a brief period ; for presently I heard no more .
having , I say , felt its truth here ; for the feeling is no affectation or chimera .
it was August ; so there could be small hope of relief during the heats .
this functionary , however , has been thoroughly mystified ; and the remote source of his defeat lies in the supposition that the Minister is a fool , because he has acquired renown as a poet .
Trackless , inexplicable snows , swept asunder in one direction only , where lay a gulf all the blacker for its glittering walls .
and in the pallid glow of the single dim street lamp he strained his eyes to see what his colleagues had brought out of that sinister house which loomed so close behind .
I heard him scream through the horrible chaos , and looked at the wild face thrust so offensively close to mine .
they possessed a delightful house for such it was in my eyes and every luxury ; they had a fire to warm them when chill and delicious viands when hungry ; they were dressed in excellent clothes ; and , still more , they enjoyed one another &apos;s company and speech , interchanging each day looks of affection and kindness .
so Ulthar went to sleep in vain anger ; and when the people awaked at dawn behold every cat was back at his accustomed hearth large and small , black , grey , striped , yellow , and white , none was missing .
I avoided the creature ; a certain sense of shame , and the remembrance of my former deed of cruelty , preventing me from physically abusing it .
Adrian raised his sword in act to speak : &quot; by whose command , &quot; he cried , addressing his own troops , &quot; do you advance ?
an air of gave extreme haut ton , however , pervaded her whole appearance ; she wore in a graceful and degage manner , a large and beautiful winding sheet of the finest India lawn ; her hair hung in ringlets over her neck ; a soft smile played about her mouth ; but her nose , extremely long , thin , sinuous , flexible and pimpled , hung down far below her under lip , and in spite of the delicate manner in which she now and then moved it to one side or the other with her tongue , gave to her countenance a somewhat equivocal expression .
I rode with him as far as Staines : he was in high spirits ; and , since I could not see Idris during his absence , he promised a speedy return .
Yrs for Gothick supremacy C IVLIVS VERVS MAXIMINVS .
I seemed bound and gagged , and taunted by the echoing yells of distant multitudes who thirsted for my blood .
then a sound halted him .
at first the tripping measure lifted my spirit with it , and for a moment my eyes gladly followed the mazes of the dance .
&quot; your Excellencies may perhaps be able to remember an humble artizan , by name Hans Pfaall , and by occupation a mender of bellows , who , with three others , disappeared from Rotterdam , about five years ago , in a manner which must have been considered by all parties at once sudden , and extremely unaccountable .
melancholy followed , but by degrees I gained a clear conception of my miseries and situation and was then released from my prison .
that his intercourse with Evadne should continue a secret to , or that finally it should be discovered by Perdita .
&quot; this fellow Casey , his name was had a lot to say about how the Innsmouth folks watched him and seemed kind of on guard .
&quot; when it come to matin &apos; with them Toad lookin &apos; fishes , the Kanakys kind o &apos; balked , but finally they larnt something as put a new face on the matter .
his hair was extremely gray , and collected in a cue behind .
I listened to the rain , and to the rattling of the bleared , small paned windows , and marked a rumbling of approaching thunder quite unusual for the season .
Perdita and Clara rode in a close carriage ; I attended them on horseback .
perhaps this current leads us to the southern pole itself .
arising early in the morning , and contriving again to escape the vigilance of my creditors , I repaired eagerly to the bookseller &apos;s stall , and laid out what little ready money I possessed , in the purchase of some volumes of mechanics and practical Astronomy .
he was by no means a handsome man perhaps the reverse .
hundreds were brought to him and rejected .
I need not say that we were strangers to any species of disunion or dispute .
of course , every thing depends on the selection of a spot with capabilities .
&quot; my thoughts now became more active , and I longed to discover the motives and feelings of these lovely creatures ; I was inquisitive to know why Felix appeared so miserable and Agatha so sad .
did not see any person in the street at the time .
we entered the prætorium and held grave converse .
with my first verse I had no material difficulty .
what may not be expected in a country of eternal light ?
I don &apos;t know that I should have gone even then , if I had not happened to hear my old mother talk about setting me up on my own hook in the grocery way .
and when , finally , I sank into slumber , it was only to rush at once into a world of phantasms , above which , with vast , sable , overshadowing wing , hovered , predominant , the one sepulchral idea .
besides , I was instigated by delicacy towards the unhappy writer of these few lines . &quot;
we are still surrounded by mountains of ice , still in imminent danger of being crushed in their conflict .
five years had failed to destroy the dazzling unreality of passion .
my hand shook perceptibly , but still I delved ; after a while standing in the large hole I had made .
&quot; it is a day of days , &quot; she said , as I approached ; &quot; a day of all days either to live or die .
he was numbered among her citizens , his name was added to the list of Grecian heroes .
both science and experience show that the period of their rising is , and necessarily must be , indeterminate .
it was in going over the letters and pictures on the Orne side that I began to acquire a kind of terror of my own ancestry .
last of my paternal race , I was likewise the last of this older and more mysterious line .
Fred Farr and Will Hutchins carried him to the roadside and laid him on the damp grass .
this caoutchouc was occasionally called Indian rubber or rubber of twist , and was no doubt one of the numerous fungi .
we were not permitted by her to select any but light hearted melodies ; and all the Operas of Mozart were called into service , that we might choose the most exhilarating of his airs .
can it be true , each asked the other with wonder and dismay , that whole countries are laid waste , whole nations annihilated , by these disorders in nature ?
in a word , we carried out our arrangement to the letter , and , at two in the morning , just ten minutes after the ceremony , I found myself in a close carriage with Madame Lalande with Mrs. Simpson , I should say and driving at a great rate out of town , in a direction northeast by North , half North .
I who had before clothed myself in the bright garb of sincerity must now borrow one of divers colours : it might sit awkwardly at first , but use would enable me to place it in elegant folds , to lie with grace .
such sentiments for the half credences of which I speak have never the full force of thought such sentiments are seldom thoroughly stifled unless by reference to the doctrine of chance , or , as it is technically termed , the Calculus of Probabilities .
whether or not such apparitions had ever gored or smothered people to death , as told in uncorroborated traditions , they had produced a strong and consistent impression ; and were yet darkly feared by very aged natives , though largely forgotten by the last two generations perhaps dying for lack of being thought about .
while the philosophers , however , were busied in blushing at their stupidity in not having foreseen these inevitable evils , and intent upon the invention of new theories , the matter was put to an abrupt issue by a fellow of the name of mob , who took every thing into his own hands and set up a despotism , in comparison with which those of the fabulous Zeros and Hellofagabaluses were respectable and delectable .
although Tarpaulin rolled twice into the fire place , mistaking it for the door , yet their escape was at length happily effected and half after twelve o &apos;clock found our heroes ripe for mischief , and running for life down a dark alley in the direction of St. Andrew &apos;s stair , hotly pursued by the landlady of the &quot; Jolly Tar . &quot;
you will exist to reflect other images in other minds , and ever will remain the same , although your reflected semblance vary in a thousand ways , changeable as the hearts of those who view thee .
get ready your spectacles and make up your mind to be annoyed .
small objects of unknown shape and nature were ranged on the tops of the cases , and in the flaming violet light Gilman thought he saw a counterpart of the spiky image which had puzzled him so horribly .
I remember how the old man leered and tittered , and made a curious sign with his hand when I bore it away .
but I am not to be bothered by any similar query .
alas thought Raymond , I have much to do before England becomes a Paradise .
oh for a voice to speak oh horror oh any horror but this With a shriek , I rushed from the margin , and buried my face in my hands weeping bitterly .
the hobby of Hermann now took the bit in his teeth .
I knew that every minute was precious to me , yet I remained irresolute in what manner to commence the interview , when the old man addressed me .
I treated them as the ravings of a maniac .
they didn &apos;t hurt the servants it was seeing that made the poor devils scream so .
he talked of his dreams in a strangely poetic fashion ; making me see with terrible vividness the damp Cyclopean city of slimy green stone whose geometry , he oddly said , was all wrong and hear with frightened expectancy the ceaseless , half mental calling from underground : &quot; Cthulhu fhtagn &quot; , &quot; Cthulhu fhtagn &quot; .
she procured plain work ; she plaited straw and by various means contrived to earn a pittance scarcely sufficient to support life .
I could see nothing distinctly on account of the mist which occupied all the little valley below .
despair had indeed almost secured her prey , and I should soon have sunk beneath this misery .
these early marriages are usual in France .
the fall had been spectacular and awful ; Hill was unrecognisable afterward , but the wreck yielded up the great surgeon in a nearly decapitated but otherwise intact condition .
wonder it keeps running at all .
then I bounded across the fields ; my spirit often seemed to ride upon the winds , and to mingle in joyful sympathy with the ambient air .
the motion of his body , too , was at variance with this idea for he rocked from side to side with a gentle yet constant and uniform sway .
I , who irretrievably destroyed thee by destroying all thou lovedst .
then there were those dark , livid marks on his throat , as if he had tried to strangle himself .
we were happy , loving , and beloved ; the horn of Amalthea contained no blessing unshowered upon us , but , alas la fortuna deidad barbara importuna , oy cadaver y ayer flor , no permanece jamas As I wandered on thus ruminating , a number of country people passed me .
a meeting , which he anticipated with such joy , so strangely turned to bitterness .
&quot; I was now rising rapidly , and by seven o &apos;clock the barometer indicated an altitude of no less than nine miles and a half .
&quot; and in the city were palaces of veined and tinted marble , with golden domes and painted walls , and green gardens with cerulean pools and crystal fountains .
I tried to find some trail into the black forest , but on this occasion could not stand the sight of those morbidly large boles , or of those vast serpent like roots that twisted so malevolently before they sank into the earth .
about the commencement of the second month of the marriage , the Lady Rowena was attacked with sudden illness , from which her recovery was slow .
I asked him to give me the ivory image before he went , but this request brought from him such uncanny laughter that I did not repeat it .
folks all wiped aout , no trace o &apos; no gold like things , an &apos; none o &apos; the nearby Kanakys ud breathe a word abaout the matter .
you have often said that the mesmeric state very nearly resembles death .
a ground sea was heard ; the thunder of its progress , as the waters rolled and swelled beneath me , became every moment more ominous and terrific .
the fiends had beaten , trampled , and bitten every attendant who did not flee ; killing four and finally succeeding in the liberation of the monster .
I had never before been in the neighbourhood of Windsor ; the fertility and beauty of the country around now struck me with admiration , which encreased as I approached the antique wood .
by degrees I commenced to feel an overwhelming wonder at the mad and fantastic conceptions of Joe Slater .
when the road dips again there are stretches of marshland that one instinctively dislikes , and indeed almost fears at evening when unseen whippoorwills chatter and the fireflies come out in abnormal profusion to dance to the raucous , creepily insistent rhythms of stridently piping bull frogs .
it was the manner in which all this , and much more , was said it was the apparent heart that went with his request which allowed me no room for hesitation ; and I accordingly obeyed forthwith what I still considered a very singular summons .
I made up my mind , at once , that this was of a simple species such , however , as would appear , to the crude intellect of the sailor , absolutely insoluble without the key . &quot; &quot; and you really solved it ? &quot;
I found Ryland much altered , even from what he had been when he visited Windsor .
Thomas , the hero , was , in fact , the gamekeeper of an Irish peer , whose eccentricities gave rise to the tale .
he was also troubled by what some of his fellow lodgers said about his sleep walking .
it is , then , needless for me to detail how , soaring rapidly , I fell heir to the &quot; Lollipop &quot; how I merged this journal in the &quot; Hum Drum &quot; how again I made purchase of the &quot; Rowdy Dow , &quot; thus combining the three periodicals how , lastly , I effected a bargain for the sole remaining rival , and united all the literature of the country in one magnificent Magazine , known everywhere as the &quot; Rowdy Dow , Lollipop , Hum Drum , and goosetherumfoodlb &quot; Yes ; I have made history .
meanwhile his evenings were spent beside the tomb of his friend , where a young olive tree had sprung up near the sleeper &apos;s head .
without knowing what futurism is like , Johansen achieved something very close to it when he spoke of the city ; for instead of describing any definite structure or building , he dwells only on broad impressions of vast angles and stone surfaces surfaces too great to belong to any thing right or proper for this earth , and impious with horrible images and hieroglyphs .
&quot; the rays of the moon seemed to search the very bottom of the profound gulf ; but still I could make out nothing distinctly , on account of a thick mist in which everything there was enveloped , and over which there hung a magnificent rainbow , like that narrow and tottering bridge which Mussulmen say is the only pathway between Time and Eternity .
I never felt deeper grief than when I saw him attempt this act although I knew he was a madman when he did it a raving maniac through sheer fright .
and now I shudder when I hear the frogs piping in swamps , or see the moon in lonely places .
&quot; the thing has gone forever , &quot; Armitage said .
is it not strange that grief should quickly follow so divine a happiness ?
I have only to add that , although I have searched every library in Europe for the works of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether , I have , up to the present day , utterly failed in my endeavors at procuring an edition .
in the day , I believe , he worked sometimes for a neighbouring farmer , because he often went forth and did not return until dinner , yet brought no wood with him .
Perdita acceded to his wishes ; for his contentment was the chief object of her life , the crown of her enjoyment ; but to leave us all , her companions , the beloved partners of her happiest years , and in the interim to conceal this frightful determination , was a task that almost conquered her strength of mind .
Bob , you are a young man , I presume very ? &quot;
sometimes , indeed , he left marks in writing on the barks of the trees or cut in stone that guided me and instigated my fury .
there were things involved which simply could not be believed by those who had not seen a sample , as indeed was made clear during certain subsequent investigations .
and those who did not die displayed in varying degree a type of anaemia or consumption , and sometimes a decline of the mental faculties , which spoke ill for the salubriousness of the building .
it occurred to us , too , that our venture was far from safe ; for in what strength the thing might appear no one could tell .
I felt the entire tranquillity of the hour when my own breath and involuntary sobs were all the sounds that struck upon the air .
&quot; you looked into the cellars ? &quot; &quot; we did . &quot;
it is indeed evident that with less of the instinctive philosophy which , now and then , stands so well in the stead of experience , Mr. Ellison would have found himself precipitated , by the very extraordinary success of his life , into the common vortex of unhappiness which yawns for those of pre eminent endowments .
he was a sincere and sympathizing friend but he had met with none who superior or equal to himself could aid him in unfolding his mind , or make him seek for fresh stores of thought by exhausting the old ones .
yet this very silence was awful , shewing the deep weight attributed to the question ; the fear of either party to hazard an ill timed attack , and the expectation of a furious contention when it should begin .
I will confide this tale of misery and terror to you the day after our marriage shall take place , for , my sweet cousin , there must be perfect confidence between us .
I then , however , examined it with attention , and found it , to my great relief , uninjured .
many individuals have been examined in relation to this most extraordinary and frightful affair .
&quot; in the meanwhile also the black ground was covered with herbage , and the green banks interspersed with innumerable flowers , sweet to the scent and the eyes , stars of pale radiance among the moonlight woods ; the sun became warmer , the nights clear and balmy ; and my nocturnal rambles were an extreme pleasure to me , although they were considerably shortened by the late setting and early rising of the sun , for I never ventured abroad during daylight , fearful of meeting with the same treatment I had formerly endured in the first village which I entered .
&quot; to be sure to be sure Doctor dub &quot; SMITHERTON .
look at England the grass shoots up high in the meadows ; but they are dank and cold , unfit bed for us .
and then I peered into the large eyes of Ligeia .
I have long observed him .
its walls had been lined with human remains , piled to the vault overhead , in the fashion of the great catacombs of Paris .
after a moment &apos;s study I felt sure that it would be of great help , and pocketed it with profuse thanks .
all was attributed to him , for I confounded so entirely the idea of father and son , that I forgot that the latter might be wholly unconscious of his parent &apos;s neglect of us ; and as I struck my aching head with my hand , I cried : &quot; he shall hear of this I will be revenged I will not suffer like a spaniel He shall know , beggar and friendless as I am , that I will not tamely submit to injury &quot; each day , each hour added to these exaggerated wrongs .
what were rain and storm to me ?
Pundit says it is decidedly the cleverest ancient work on its topic , logic .
I had always admired his talents ; his noble aspirations ; his grand conceptions of the glory and majesty of his ambition : his utter want of mean passions ; his fortitude and daring .
crouched in the bushes of that sandy cleft I felt reasonably safe , even though I knew the searchers would have to cross the track in front of me not much more than a hundred yards away .
they had streamed up the aisle between the high white pews to the trap door of the vaults which yawned loathsomely open just before the pulpit , and were now squirming noiselessly in .
&quot; well , I may venture so far as to say that the paper gives its holder a certain power in a certain quarter where such power is immensely valuable . &quot;
and the conches of the tritons gave weird blasts , and the nereids made strange sounds by striking on the grotesque resonant shells of unknown lurkers in black sea caves .
you took me on board when my vigour was exhausted , and I should soon have sunk under my multiplied hardships into a death which I still dread , for my task is unfulfilled .
but it is the singularity of the expression which reigns upon the face it is the intense , the wonderful , the thrilling evidence of old age , so utter , so extreme , which excites within my spirit a sense a sentiment ineffable .
the belief , however , was connected as I have previously hinted with the gray stones of the home of his forefathers .
on those occasions the evil , sardonic , and seemingly unmotivated stare of the beldame had set him almost shivering especially the first time , when an overgrown rat darting across the shadowed mouth of a neighbouring alley had made him think irrationally of Brown Jenkin .
the rails were rusty but mainly intact , and not more than half the ties had rotted away .
the door of the church basement was open , revealing a rectangle of blackness inside .
he uttered words amidst the screaming , and they echo still in my ears .
my heart palpitated in the sickness of fear , and I hurried on with irregular steps , not daring to look about me : like one who , on a lonely road , doth walk in fear and dread , And , having once turned round , walks on , And turns no more his head ; Because he knows a frightful fiend doth close behind him tread .
it was unusually dense .
it was a drizzling , penetrating shower ; as my dank hair clung to my neck and partly covered my face , I had hardly strength to part with my fingers , the long strait locks that fell before my eyes .
Elinor had not the genius of Woodville but she was generous and noble , and exalted by her youth and the love that she every where excited above the knowledge of aught but virtue and excellence .
his name was Thomas Olney , and he taught ponderous things in a college by Narragansett Bay .
this they do not wish , for to plain people things not of earth are unwelcome ; and besides , the Terrible Old Man often recalls what Olney said about a knock that the lone dweller feared , and a shape seen black and inquisitive against the mist through those queer translucent windows of leaded bull &apos;s eyes .
if his passion subdued him he locked himself in his room ; and at night when he wandered restlessly about the house , it was when every other creature slept .
what &quot; business of the highest importance &quot; could he possibly have to transact ?
without assistance , we could expect to do little for the security of the ship , and our exertions were at first paralyzed by the momentary expectation of going down .
I suffered no pain or uneasiness of any kind , and enjoyed better spirits than I had at any period since my departure from Rotterdam , busying myself now in examining the state of my various apparatus , and now in regenerating the atmosphere within the chamber .
all eyes were fixed upon him as he stood ponderous of frame , sonorous of voice , and with a manner which , though not graceful , was impressive .
all at once , after an infinity of awesome , sightless crawling up that concave and desperate precipice , I felt my head touch a solid thing , and I knew I must have gained the roof , or at least some kind of floor .
after a long pause , and mutteringly .
I was seized with an uncontrollable desire to ascend the giddy pinnacle , and then survey the immense extent of the city .
although well armed , she is not , I think , a ship of war .
can you wonder , Mathilda , that I dwelt on your looks , your words , your motions , drank in unmixed delight ?
I will begin my tale : it is my last task , and I hope I have strength sufficient to fulfill it .
Dr. F then intimated a desire to have me put a question .
my limbs now tremble , and my eyes swim with the remembrance ; but then a resistless and almost frantic impulse urged me forward ; I seemed to have lost all soul or sensation but for this one pursuit .
&quot; ha &quot; said he thoughtfully , &quot; the Venus the beautiful Venus ? the Venus of the Medici ?
I may just mention , however , that die I did not .
it was , beyond doubt , the coincidence alone which had arrested my attention ; for , amid the rattling of the sashes of the casements , and the ordinary commingled noises of the still increasing storm , the sound , in itself , had nothing , surely , which should have interested or disturbed me .
lines of fright deepened on every face ; and Armitage , shaken as he was , had barely poise enough to prompt the speaker .
our numbers amounted to not quite two thousand persons .
I could not but perceive that Perdita loved Raymond ; methought also that he regarded the fair daughter of Verney with admiration and tenderness .
but she was innocent .
a few days will remove all this ; but I fully understand you , and feel for you .
you would have roared with laughter to see him spin .
their way at every step or plunge grew more noisome and more horrible the paths more narrow and more intricate .
Olney started in fright , but the bearded man motioned him to be still , and tiptoed to the door to look out through a very small peep hole .
with the deepening of the hole , which was about six feet square , the evil smell increased ; and I lost all doubt of my imminent contact with the hellish thing whose emanations had cursed the house for over a century and a half .
why do I weep so bitterly ?
yet this consequence would not have been immediately remarkable , if Raymond had continued to apply himself to the execution of his plans for the public benefit , and the fulfilling his duties as Protector .
the crone had seemed to notice him and leer evilly at him though perhaps this was merely his imagination .
so I &apos;s to gouge out all their eyes , eh ? and d n all their gizzards vell this here &apos;s the chap as is just able for to do it.&apos;
their deadly power shook the flourishing countries of the south , and during winter , even , we , in our northern retreat , began to quake under their ill effects .
hearing what I have lately heard , it would be indeed strange should I remain silent in regard to what I both heard and saw so long ago .
the body , as might be expected , seemed to West a heaven sent gift .
though I had never seen this space , it had looked dangerous to me on the grocery youth &apos;s map ; since the moonlight would have free play there .
no one outside the backwoods had believed these varying and conflicting stories , with their incoherent , extravagant descriptions of the half glimpsed fiend ; yet not a farmer or villager doubted that the Martense mansion was ghoulishly haunted .
and in the end I went , wet , hatless , and dazed in the morning light , and entered that awful door in Benefit Street which I had left ajar , and which still swung cryptically in full sight of the early householders to whom I dared not speak .
he was almost convulsed with fright as he stumbled into the kitchen ; and in the yard outside the no less frightened herd were pawing and lowing pitifully , having followed the boy back in the panic they shared with him .
&quot; but you may be ill and yet have no fever .
the picture appeared a vast and dim scene of evil , and I foresaw obscurely that I was destined to become the most wretched of human beings .
this depicting of character constituted my design ; and this design was thoroughly fulfilled in the wild train of circumstances brought to instance Dupin &apos;s idiosyncrasy .
at a vast distance to the eastward , although perfectly discernible , extended the islands of Great Britain , the entire Atlantic coasts of France and Spain , with a small portion of the northern part of the continent of Africa .
the particulars furnished below may be relied on as authentic and accurate in every respect , as , with a slight exception , they are copied verbatim from the joint diaries of Mr. Monck Mason and Mr. Harrison Ainsworth , to whose politeness our agent is also indebted for much verbal information respecting the balloon itself , its construction , and other matters of interest .
Donovan slid or somehow propelled himself down or along the jamb and rejoined his fellows , and everyone watched the queer recession of the monstrously carven portal .
the crew glide to and fro like the ghosts of buried centuries ; their eyes have an eager and uneasy meaning ; and when their fingers fall athwart my path in the wild glare of the battle lanterns , I feel as I have never felt before , although I have been all my life a dealer in antiquities , and have imbibed the shadows of fallen columns at Balbec , and Tadmor , and Persepolis , until my very soul has become a ruin .
the intimate sympathy generated by similar hopes and fears , similar experience and pursuits , was wanting here .
the other chamber had shewn a pack of ghouls and witches overrunning the world of our forefathers , but this one brought the horror right into our own daily life Gad , how that man could paint There was a study called &quot; subway accident &quot; , in which a flock of the vile things were clambering up from some unknown catacomb through a crack in the floor of the Boylston Street subway and attacking a crowd of people on the platform .
a table , about four feet square , was introduced , into the room appropriated for the exhibition .
gnashing its teeth , and flashing fire from its eyes , it flew upon the body of the girl , and imbedded its fearful talons in her throat , retaining its grasp until she expired .
all on deck , with the exception of ourselves , had been swept overboard ; the captain and mates must have perished as they slept , for the cabins were deluged with water .
on the margin of this river stood an Eastern looking city , such as we read of in the Arabian Tales , but of a character even more singular than any there described .
&quot; and how is this to be done ? &quot;
&quot; indeed &quot; said Idris , &quot; and why , if he be so near , does he not come to see us , and make one of our society ? &quot;
the information thus obtained induced her to renew her scrutiny ; and this scrutiny it was which so emboldened me that I behaved in the absurd manner already detailed .
it is enough to know that he dwelt in a city of high walls where sterile twilight reigned , and that he toiled all day among shadow and turmoil , coming home at evening to a room whose one window opened not on the fields and groves but on a dim court where other windows stared in dull despair .
at first my exploits were unperceived ; I increased in daring ; footsteps on the dewy grass , torn boughs , and marks of slaughter , at length betrayed me to the game keepers .
on the day succeeding the fire , I visited the ruins .
my parents , alarmed at the altered manner and appearance of their only son , commenced to exert over my movements a kindly espionage which threatened to result in disaster .
that of Bergerac is utterly meaningless .
at this juncture , very imprudently , and without consideration , I threw out from the car three five pound pieces of ballast .
she became dissatisfied with the abuse of the premises by her tenant , and moved into them herself , refusing to let any portion .
&quot; now , &quot; said my friend , &quot; what we regard as exaltation of the landscape may be really such , as respects only the moral or human point of view .
this fellow also spoke of hearing the tread of shod feet in the night ; but Gilman was sure he must have been mistaken in this , since shoes as well as other apparel were always precisely in place in the morning .
went home in high glee , drank a bottle of champagne , and booked the young man for five thousand .
at page , for example , near the middle , we read , in reference to his researches about the protoxide of azote : &apos; in less than half a minute the respiration being continued , diminished gradually and were succeeded by analogous to gentle pressure on all the muscles.&apos;
the spectators are now satisfied that the whole of the box is exposed to view and exposed too , all portions of it at one and the same time .
I trembled with excess of agitation as I said this ; there was a frenzy in my manner , and something , I doubt not , of that haughty fierceness which the martyrs of old are said to have possessed .
although , when I was informed of this scheme , I was bitterly offended by the small attention which Raymond paid to my sister &apos;s feelings , I was led by reflection to consider , that he acted under the force of such strong excitement , as to take from him the consciousness , and , consequently , the guilt of a fault .
I say , Blackwood , because I have been assured that the finest writing , upon every subject , is to be discovered in the pages of that justly celebrated Magazine .
any reference to a town not shewn on common maps or listed in recent guide books would have interested me , and the agent &apos;s odd manner of allusion roused something like real curiosity .
there has no person , whatever , come forward , so far , who saw her at all , on that day , after she left her mother &apos;s door .... Now , though we have no evidence that Marie Rogêt was in the land of the living after nine o &apos;clock on Sunday , June the twenty second , we have proof that , up to that hour , she was alive .
it was not even , as might be at first supposed , an extreme condition , or exaggeration of such propensity , but primarily and essentially distinct and different .
it is our nature to wish to continue our systems and thoughts to posterity through our own offspring .
I entreated her to speak to me : &quot; not now , &quot; she replied , &quot; nor do you speak to me , my dear Lionel ; you can say nothing , for you know nothing .
in that shrieking the inmost soul of human fear and agony clawed hopelessly and insanely at the ebony gates of oblivion .
the flames devoured the volumes greedily leaping up in strange colours and emitting indescribably hideous odours as the strangely hieroglyphed leaves and wormy bindings succumbed to the devastating element .
&quot; and then there was Jules Desoulieres , who was a very singular genius , indeed , and went mad with the idea that he was a pumpkin .
look Look , curse you , look . . .
the more Adrian reasoned upon this scheme , the more feasible it appeared .
upon the alarm of fire , this garden had been immediately filled by the crowd by some one of whom the animal must have been cut from the tree and thrown , through an open window , into my chamber .
now they dream that the brows of the conqueror of the infidel faith are about to be encircled by triumphant laurel ; they talk of honourable reward , of title , power , and wealth all I ask of Greece is a grave .
I assumed the name , Simpson , with some reluctance , as in my true patronym , Froissart , I felt a very pardonable pride believing that I could trace a descent from the immortal author of the &quot; Chronicles . &quot;
then , in an exaltation of supreme horror , everyone saw the end .
&quot; but this was a luxury of sensation that could not endure ; I became fatigued with excess of bodily exertion and sank on the damp grass in the sick impotence of despair .
as the men passed the site of Wilbur Whateley &apos;s abode they shuddered visibly , and seemed again to mix hesitancy with their zeal .
an almost interminable manuscript in strange characters , written in a huge ledger and adjudged a sort of diary because of the spacing and the variations in ink and penmanship , presented a baffling puzzle to those who found it on the old bureau which served as its owner &apos;s desk .
there are moments when , even to the sober eye of Reason , the world of our sad Humanity may assume the semblance of a Hell but the imagination of man is no Carathis , to explore with impunity its every cavern .
the windings became more frequent and intricate , and seemed often as if returning in upon themselves , so that the voyager had long lost all idea of direction .
alas You have a secret grief that destroys us both : but you must permit me to win this secret from you .
now the ridge narrowed , and Olney grew dizzy at his loneness in the sky .
even now I weep to think that , borne down as you are by the cruellest misfortunes , you may stifle , by the word &apos; honour , &apos; all hope of that love and happiness which would alone restore you to yourself .
as volition was in abeyance , the balls could not roll in their sockets but all objects within the range of the visual hemisphere were seen with more or less distinctness ; the rays which fell upon the external retina , or into the corner of the eye , producing a more vivid effect than those which struck the front or interior surface .
these communications , although various and apparently from various sources , tended all to the same point viz . , the directing of attention to a gang as the perpetrators of the outrage , and to the neighborhood of the Barrière du Roule as its scene .
and now , as I still continued to step cautiously onward , there came thronging upon my recollection a thousand vague rumors of the horrors of Toledo .
small parties had been dispatched to various parts of England , in search of stragglers ; we would not go , until we had assured ourselves that in all human probability we did not leave behind a single human being .
fire boats were launched from the various ports , while our troops sometimes recoiled from the devoted courage of men who did not seek to live , but to sell their lives dearly .
instead , they either denied these things altogether or transferred them to the crude , vague instincts which they shared with the beasts and peasants ; so that their lives were dragged malodorously out in pain , ugliness , and disproportion , yet filled with a ludicrous pride at having escaped from something no more unsound than that which still held them .
it will stand thus : represents a &quot; d &quot; e &quot; g &quot; h &quot; i &quot; n &quot; o &quot; r ; &quot; t &quot; We have , therefore , no less than ten of the most important letters represented , and it will be unnecessary to proceed with the details of the solution .
it was in the hot autumn that I went through the night with the restless crowds to see Nyarlathotep ; through the stifling night and up the endless stairs into the choking room .
I know , I feel she was innocent ; you are of the same opinion , and that confirms me .
&quot; wanted The advertisers , being about to commence extensive business operations in this city , will require the services of three or four intelligent and competent clerks , to whom a liberal salary will be paid .
some time passed before I summoned courage to ring the bell for my servant , and when she came I still dared not utter my father &apos;s name .
this gentleman had amassed a princely fortune , and , having no immediate connections , conceived the whim of suffering his wealth to accumulate for a century after his decease .
indeed , had the car and contents been three times heavier than they were , I should not have been at all uneasy .
he became the victim of its weakness .
&quot; be it so , &quot; I said , replacing the tool beneath the cloak , and again offering him my arm .
it was curious how he could stand so much whiskey , for not even a trace of thickness had come into his high , wheezy voice .
he had with him a huge oaken cudgel , but appeared to be otherwise unarmed .
the coal gas is not only much less costly , but is easily procured and managed .
for full stadia did they run , being open only on the side toward the lake ; where a green stone sea wall kept back the waves that rose oddly once a year at the festival of the destroying of Ib .
I will proclaim , I will prove your innocence .
he set the literary as well as the personal character of the Fly so Mr. C. satirically designated the rival editor , in its true light .
he talked on , therefore , at great length , while I merely leaned back in my chair with my eyes shut , and amused myself with munching raisins and filliping the stems about the room .
I followed speedily , I hardly knew why ; but when the man saw me draw near , he aimed a gun , which he carried , at my body and fired .
novels and all the various methods by which youth in civilized life are led to a knowledge of the existence of passions before they really feel them , had produced a strong effect on him who was so peculiarly susceptible of every impression .
I could have torn him limb from limb , as the lion rends the antelope .
surprise , horror , and misery were strongly expressed .
this response of the schoolboy lies at the bottom of all the spurious profundity which has been attributed to Rochefoucault , to La Bougive , to Machiavelli , and to Campanella . &quot; &quot; and the identification , &quot; I said , &quot; of the reasoner &apos;s intellect with that of his opponent , depends , if I understand you aright , upon the accuracy with which the opponent &apos;s intellect is admeasured . &quot;
Henry saw this , and had removed all my apparatus from my view .
nothing , at this moment , could have given me greater pleasure than the arrival of my father .
further consultations of the monstrous diary brought about various changes of plan , and he knew that even in the end a large amount of uncertainty must remain .
I noticed that in less than a minute afterward his corpse had all the stern rigidity of stone .
&quot; nothing , &quot; she replied at first ; &quot; and yet not so , &quot; she continued , hurrying on in her speech ; &quot; you have secrets , Raymond ; where have you been lately , whom have you seen , what do you conceal from me ? why am I banished from your confidence ?
I recall digging unreasoningly in all parts of the brier choked cellar ; digging to find the core and centre of that malignant universe of mounds .
the wife and lovely child of Lord Raymond became objects of intense interest in Athens .
nay , she could love and dwell with tenderness on the look and voice of her friend , while her demeanour expressed the coldest reserve .
well , these few details are nearly all that have descended to us respecting the ancient Knickerbockers .
vain was all philosophical reasoning vain all fortitude vain , vain , a reliance on probable good .
do you not see he has taken it for granted that all men proceed to conceal a letter , not exactly in a gimlet hole bored in a chair leg but , at least , in some out of the way hole or corner suggested by the same tenor of thought which would urge a man to secrete a letter in a gimlet hole bored in a chair leg ?
flying from the mass of falling ruin which leapt over the high walls , and shook the ivy towers , a crowd of soldiers made for the road by which I came ; I was surrounded , hemmed in by them , unable to get forward .
I felt as if I was about the commission of a dreadful crime and avoided with shuddering anxiety any encounter with my fellow creatures .
I remembered the effect that the view of the tremendous and ever moving glacier had produced upon my mind when I first saw it .
having failed in this , on account of the crowd , I at length gave up the chase , and bent my steps homeward ; consoling myself for my disappointment in not having been able to touch even the hem of her robe , by the reflection that I should be introduced by Talbot , in due form , upon the morrow .
I might have adduced other examples , but I should have proven no more .
history , indeed , was all I had after everything else ended in mocking Satanism .
my journey was very melancholy .
a moment more and I had fettered him to the granite .
threw down several bottles to the vessels below .
&quot; when my hunger was appeased , I directed my steps towards the well known path that conducted to the cottage .
I threw myself upon my face , and clung to the scant herbage in an excess of nervous agitation .
my father , who was watching over me , perceiving my restlessness , awoke me ; the dashing waves were around , the cloudy sky above , the fiend was not here : a sense of security , a feeling that a truce was established between the present hour and the irresistible , disastrous future imparted to me a kind of calm forgetfulness , of which the human mind is by its structure peculiarly susceptible .
it took no excessive sensitiveness to beauty to make me literally gasp at the strange , unearthly splendour of the alien , opulent phantasy that rested there on a purple velvet cushion .
I am , I thought , a tragedy ; a character that he comes to see act : now and then he gives me my cue that I may make a speech more to his purpose : perhaps he is already planning a poem in which I am to figure .
there are few persons who have not , at some period of their lives , amused themselves in retracing the steps by which particular conclusions of their own minds have been attained .
but there are gradations of matter of which man knows nothing ; the grosser impelling the finer , the finer pervading the grosser .
I writhed , and made spasmodic exertions to force open the lid : it would not move .
you were not even guilty of robbery , when you might have robbed with impunity .
here , after due interval , I was deposited .
my position enabled me to include in a single view both the eastern and western extremities of the islet ; and I observed a singularly marked difference in their aspects .
&quot; he he he he he he yes , the Amontillado .
the inward sounds , except for a watchful , droning whine from the dog , had by this time quite subsided ; but Armitage now perceived with a sudden start that a loud chorus of whippoorwills among the shrubbery had commenced a damnably rhythmical piping , as if in unison with the last breaths of a dying man .
other folks were prosp &apos;rin &apos; , too fish begun to swarm into the harbour fit to kill , an &apos; heaven knows what sized cargoes we begun to ship aout to Newb &apos;ryport , Arkham , an &apos; Boston .
the machine droned detestably .
or , perhaps , I cannot now bring these points to mind , because , in truth , the character of my beloved , her rare learning , her singular yet placid cast of beauty , and the thrilling and enthralling eloquence of her low musical language , made their way into my heart by paces so steadily and stealthily progressive that they have been unnoticed and unknown .
during all that time Henry was my only nurse .
originality : your diddler is original conscientiously so .
in the classical tongues was she deeply proficient , and as far as my own acquaintance extended in regard to the modern dialects of Europe , I have never known her at fault .
he quoted porphyry , Iamblicus , Plotinus , Proclus , Hierocles , Maximus Tyrius , and Syrianus .
it was not thus with Idris .
I might as well here observe that this confirmation of my lady &apos;s partiality for Mr. W. occasioned me little uneasiness .
and now , some days of bitter grief having elapsed , an observable change came over the features of the mental disorder of my friend .
the duellist accepted my aid with his stiff and ultra recherche air , and , taking my arm , led me to his apartment .
he seemed to expect some demonstration when the first piece the tiara became visible , but I doubt if he expected quite what actually happened .
one of the small radiating arms was broken off and subjected to chemical analysis , and the result is still talked about in college circles .
but whatever the reason , this old man and woman took pleasure in trapping and slaying every cat which came near to their hovel ; and from some of the sounds heard after dark , many villagers fancied that the manner of slaying was exceedingly peculiar .
he is never seduced into a flurry .
I resolved to clamber up to this hole .
some of the cliffs they love , as that whose grotesque profile they call Father Neptune , or that whose pillared steps they term The causeway ; but this one they fear because it is so near the sky .
it was not long after the faculty had interdicted his work that West confided to me his resolution to get fresh human bodies in some manner , and continue in secret the experiments he could no longer perform openly .
suddenly , however , the manners of Raymond changed ; he appeared to desire to find opportunities of bringing about a return to kindness and intimacy with my sister .
I have said that the unbroken monotony of the rolling plain was a source of vague horror to me ; but I think my horror was greater when I gained the summit of the mound and looked down the other side into an immeasurable pit or canyon , whose black recesses the moon had not yet soared high enough to illumine .
meantime a day again passed bearing away with it the last shadow of Hope .
do not laugh in that manner .
I can only say that I fainted , and did not stir till he himself recovered and shook me in his phrensy for someone to keep away the horror and desolation .
it was never light , so that I used sometimes to light candles and gaze steadily at them for relief ; nor was there any sun outdoors , since the terrible trees grew high above the topmost accessible tower .
oppressed , as I certainly was , upon the occurrence of this second and most extraordinary coincidence , by a thousand conflicting sensations , in which wonder and extreme terror were predominant , I still retained sufficient presence of mind to avoid exciting , by any observation , the sensitive nervousness of my companion .
others more particularly belong to the race of philosophers .
it was early when I called , and the General was dressing ; but I pleaded urgent business , and was shown at once into his bed room by an old negro valet , who remained in attendance during my visit .
your solitudes , sweet land , your trees and waters will still exist , moved by your winds , or still beneath the eye of noon , though what I have felt about ye , and all my dreams which have often strangely deformed thee , will die with me .
my brain was as great a chaos as the earth , and as a distant red glare burst on the landscape from the south I hardly realised the horror I had been through .
during the short years of thoughtless youth , he was adored by the high bred triflers of the day , nor least by the youthful sovereign , who escaped from the intrigues of party , and the arduous duties of kingly business , to find never failing amusement and exhilaration of spirit in his society .
there was a sharp cry and the dagger dropped gleaming upon the sable carpet , upon which , instantly afterwards , fell prostrate in death the Prince Prospero .
deposit your powers in my hands .
at first I thought it was because they were all silent and reticent ; but later decided it was because they were all very old .
that it held a key was indeed only a dim legend , and Randolph Carter &apos;s father had never known such a box existed .
the feeling of vexation thus engendered grew stronger with every circumstance tending to show resemblance , moral or physical , between my rival and myself .
she had , she said , seen Brown Jenkin about the place now and then ever since early in March , and knew from its grimaces and titterings that little Ladislas must be marked for sacrifice at the awful Sabbat on Walpurgis Night .
you and I have drifted to the worlds that reel about the red Arcturus , and dwelt in the bodies of the insect philosophers that crawl proudly over the fourth moon of Jupiter .
he began his lecture by a recapitulation of the history of chemistry and the various improvements made by different men of learning , pronouncing with fervour the names of the most distinguished discoverers .
and so I spent part of that evening at the Newburyport public Library looking up data about Innsmouth .
children were choking .
not like the eikons of other gods were those of Zo Kalar and Tamash and Lobon , for so close to life were they that one might swear the graceful bearded gods themselves sate on the ivory thrones .
that bride was understood to have been an orphaned Marsh of New Hampshire a cousin of the Essex County Marshes but her education had been in France and she knew very little of her family .
Earl Sawyer suggested that help be asked from Aylesbury or Arkham , but others maintained it would be of no use .
he had now lost both .
for the bouleversement in itself was not only natural and inevitable , but had been long actually anticipated as a circumstance to be expected whenever I should arrive at that exact point of my voyage where the attraction of the planet should be superseded by the attraction of the satellite or , more precisely , where the gravitation of the balloon toward the earth should be less powerful than its gravitation toward the moon .
some of the over wise even made themselves ridiculous by decrying the whole business ; as nothing better than a hoax .
the falling of other walls had compressed the victim of my cruelty into the substance of the freshly spread plaster ; the lime of which , with the flames , and the ammonia from the carcass , had then accomplished the portraiture as I saw it .
nobody ever failed to pitch me a copper , and got over my crossing with a clean pair of pantaloons .
&quot; this , &quot; I said , &quot; is the mark of no human hand . &quot;
she could not go alone to a country where she had no friends , where she might arrive only to hear the dreadful news , which must overwhelm her with grief and remorse .
we have an abundance of gas to take us across this small pond , even should the voyage last three weeks .
again mustering his resolution , Gilman turned and dragged himself back to the sinister old house .
I wouldn &apos;t advise you to try it .
let us sift to the bottom this affair of the first elopement .
I spent the day with him .
touch had undergone a modification more peculiar .
yet read as I might , in no manner could I account for the strange curse upon my line .
nothing harsh or rough remained to jar with the soft feelings which the transactions of the day had inspired ; I was as a child lisping its devotions after its mother , and my plastic soul was remoulded by a master hand , which I neither desired nor was able to resist .
the true reason , perhaps , is that x is rather the most superabundant letter in the cases , or at least was so in the old times long enough to render the substitution in question an habitual thing with printers .
in that part of the town where the fire had most raged the night before , and which now lay quenched , black and cold , the dying dog of Raymond crouched beside the mutilated form of its lord .
he forgot that each word he spoke was false .
she had come by herself from the Castle , three long miles , at midnight , through the heavy snow ; we must reach Englefield Green , a mile and a half further , before we could obtain a chaise .
she found , upon mature deliberation , that , by some accident , she had been turned into a chicken cock ; but , as such , she behaved with propriety .
&quot; the man who ran up against you as we entered the street it may have been fifteen minutes ago . &quot;
and then the brush was given , and then the tint was placed ; and , for one moment , the painter stood entranced before the work which he had wrought ; but in the next , while he yet gazed , he grew tremulous and very pallid , and aghast , and crying with a loud voice , &apos; This is indeed Life itself &apos; turned suddenly to regard his beloved : she was dead &quot; I was sick sick unto death with that long agony ; and when they at length unbound me , and I was permitted to sit , I felt that my senses were leaving me .
well , these are useless complaints ; I shall certainly find no friend on the wide ocean , nor even here in Archangel , among merchants and seamen .
the door itself had its upper half of glass , also in lozenge panes a movable shutter secured it at night .
the whippoorwills in the glen had screamed with such unusual persistence that many could not sleep , and about A.M. all the party telephones rang tremulously .
if I returned , it was to be sacrificed or to see those whom I most loved die under the grasp of a daemon whom I had myself created .
it was in the spectral summer when the moon shone down on the old garden where I wandered ; the spectral summer of narcotic flowers and humid seas of foliage that bring wild and many coloured dreams .
she was considered a traitor by both , the ruin of her husband followed ; they avoided death by a timely flight , and she fell from the height of her desires to penury in England .
the monster was there it glared and gnawed and gnawed and glared and I knew that only a suspension of Nature &apos;s laws could ever let a man paint a thing like that without a model without some glimpse of the nether world which no mortal unsold to the Fiend has ever had .
you will remember , perhaps , how desperately the Prefect laughed when I suggested , upon our first interview , that it was just possible this mystery troubled him so much on account of its being so very self evident . &quot;
surely a pretty hearthside tale , with a queer significance as to name and place ; but I decided that the Providence gossips could not have generally known of it .
on the eighteenth of this month news arrived in London that the plague was in France and Italy .
I trembled not I stirred not for a crowd of unutterable fancies connected with the air , the stature , the demeanor of the figure , rushing hurriedly through my brain , had paralyzed had chilled me into stone .
after musing on it for a moment , he asked me if I were about to return to London , and if I would accompany him : I consented .
they who lose their hold do so from their own want of strength ; but desiring to conceal their weakness , they attribute the absence of success to the first Critick that mentions them . &quot;
these few , being still comparatively strangers , could not , or would not , take the liberty of introducing me through the formality of a morning call .
even getting to another roof would not solve the problem , for there would then remain the task of reaching the ground and escaping from the town .
she lived in a phosphorescent palace of many terraces , with gardens of strange leprous corals and grotesque brachiate efflorescences , and welcomed me with a warmth that may have been sardonic .
I determined to commence a series of covert insinuations , or innuendoes , about the oblong box just to let him perceive , gradually , that I was not altogether the butt , or victim , of his little bit of pleasant mystification .
he wanted them gold things , an &apos; was willin &apos; to pay heavy , an &apos; I guess the others was satisfied fer a while . . . .
e Coleridge &apos;s Fire , Famine and slaughter .
an evil direction still survived ; and men were not happy , not because they could not , but because they would not rouse themselves to vanquish self raised obstacles .
and that night , after our reunion , Barry told me why .
it was decided that we remain alive as long as possible , using the large stock of provisions and chemical supply of oxygen , none of which had suffered from the crazy antics of those swine hound seamen .
the body of the Automaton is generally insulated , and , having no means of immediately comparing it with any human form , we suffer ourselves to consider it as of ordinary dimensions .
I seemed to keep track of those chimes with a peculiar intentness , as if I feared to hear some very remote , intruding note among them .
why should you despair ?
the green moon , shining through broken windows , shewed me the hall door half open ; and as I rose from the plaster strown floor and twisted myself free from the sagged ceilings , I saw sweep past it an awful torrent of blackness , with scores of baleful eyes glowing in it .
for his gold I had no desire .
but now my walk was slow My eyes were seldom raised and often filled with tears ; no song ; no smiles ; no careless motion that might bespeak a mind intent on what surrounded it I was gathered up into myself a selfish solitary creature ever pondering on my regrets and faded hopes .
they were of solid steel apparently , and their edges appeared to be sharp .
is it not enough that I shall never more meet the eyes of my beloved father ; never more hear his voice ; no caress , no look ?
had I not been thus prolix , you might either have misunderstood me altogether , or , with the rabble , have fancied me mad .
the old man , I could perceive , often endeavoured to encourage his children , as sometimes I found that he called them , to cast off their melancholy .
Adrian was absorbed in meditation .
from a drawer in this table is taken a set of chess men , and Maelzel arranges them generally , but not always , with his own hands , on the chess board , which consists merely of the usual number of squares painted upon the table .
he would either entirely dispel Perdita &apos;s suspicions , or quit her for ever .
soon , too soon , I entered the giddy whirl ; forgetting my studious hours , and the companionship of Adrian .
leaping , floating , flying down those endless stairs through the dark house ; racing mindlessly out into the narrow , steep , and ancient street of steps and tottering houses ; clattering down steps and over cobbles to the lower streets and the putrid canyon walled river ; panting across the great dark bridge to the broader , healthier streets and boulevards we know ; all these are terrible impressions that linger with me .
this rare peculiarity set off to great advantage a pair of shoulders which would have called up a blush of conscious inferiority into the countenance of the marble Apollo .
I stood at the head of the staircase , and encouraged him to ascend .
then silence , and stillness , night were the universe .
each , too , has a pipe in his mouth , and a little dumpy watch in his right hand .
by courtesy of his creditors , there still remained in his possession a small remnant of his patrimony ; and , upon the income arising from this , he managed , by means of a rigorous economy , to procure the necessaries of life , without troubling himself about its superfluities .
since Fortune has thought fit to bestow it upon me , I have only to use it properly and I shall arrive at the gold of which it is the index .
when the last of the Hydes was buried in this place of shade and stillness , the sad urnful of ashes had come from a distant land ; to which the family had repaired when the mansion burned down .
&quot; my father &quot; cried I , while every feature and every muscle was relaxed from anguish to pleasure .
they neither see the space behind the drawer , nor the interior of cupboard No. the front door of which latter the exhibiter virtually shuts in shutting its back door .
my exertions were unremitted : after a time I left Athens , and joined the army stationed at Kishan in Thrace .
late events , however , in their surprising development , have startled me into some farther details , which will carry with them the air of extorted confession .
the professor stared .
once in a while a wind , sweeping up out of Cold Spring Glen , would bring a touch of ineffable foetor to the heavy night air ; such a foetor as all three of the watchers had smelled once before , when they stood above a dying thing that had passed for fifteen years and a half as a human being .
it was only about dusk that the indecent haste of these &apos; miscreants &apos; offended the sober eyes of Madame Deluc .
in college , and during our early practice together in the factory town of Bolton , my attitude toward him had been largely one of fascinated admiration ; but as his boldness in methods grew , I began to develop a gnawing fear .
diddling or the abstract idea conveyed by the verb to diddle is sufficiently well understood .
Clerval , who had watched my countenance as I read this letter , was surprised to observe the despair that succeeded the joy I at first expressed on receiving new from my friends .
at noon , to day , ascended to an elevation of nearly , feet , by discharging ballast .
ye are all going to die , I thought ; already your tomb is built up around you .
I read with ardour those works , so full of genius and discrimination , which modern inquirers have written on these subjects .
and here we separated , while one of the trio began humming a gay vaudeville , of which I caught only the lines Ninon , Ninon , Ninon a bas A bas Ninon De L &apos;Enclos During this little scene , however , one thing had served greatly to console me , although it fed the passion by which I was consumed .
sometimes when earth &apos;s gods are homesick they visit in the still night the peaks where once they dwelt , and weep softly as they try to play in the olden way on remembered slopes .
it was now in ruin : the deer had climbed the broken palings , and reposed among the flowers ; grass grew on the threshold , and the swinging lattice creaking to the wind , gave signal of utter desertion .
whether we succeed or fail , the excitement which you now perceive in me will be equally allayed . &quot;
how then do you trace any connexion between the boat and the skull since this latter , according to your own admission , must have been designed God only knows how or by whom at some period subsequent to your sketching the scarabæus ? &quot;
I was the leader and protector of my comrades , and as I became distinguished among them , their misdeeds were usually visited upon me .
he repaid this spirit of kindness with the fondest gratitude , and made her the treasure house of all his hopes .
when the lessons of experience fell from the lips of infancy ? and when the wisdom or the passions of maturity I found hourly gleaming from its full and speculative eye ?
it gave out no light , properly so called , but a dull and sullen glow without reflection , as if all its rays were polarized .
if I fail , you will see me again soon , or never .
we passed through many lanes and over fields and wild downs ; the rain poured down in torrents ; and the loud thunder broke in terrible crashes over our heads .
&quot; the suspicious circumstances which invest him , will be found to tally much better with my hypothesis of romantic busy bodyism , than with the reasoner &apos;s suggestion of guilt .
it was appended to a weighty rod of brass , and the whole hissed as it swung through the air .
he did not recall seeing it in any museum in Arkham .
yet notwithstanding these disadvantages winter was breathing time ; and we exerted ourselves to make the best of it .
we already possessed Pera ; the Golden horn itself , the city , bastioned by the sea , and the ivy mantled walls of the Greek emperors was all of Europe that the Mahometans could call theirs .
people allowed maybe old Captain Obed traded for it in some heathen port , especially since he was always ordering stacks of glass beads and trinkets such as seafaring men used to get for native trade .
I could not , however , resist ; but cast a sidelong glance as I carefully and imitatively shambled toward the protecting shadows ahead .
an intimate and anxious examination of his career , has taught me to understand that , in general , from the violation of a few simple laws of Humanity , arises the wretchedness of mankind ; that , as a species , we have in our possession the as yet unwrought elements of content , and that even now , in the present blindness and darkness of all idea on the great question of the Social Condition , it is not impossible that Man , the individual , under certain unusual and highly fortuitous conditions , may be happy .
having resolved on this , he became calmer .
&quot; yet Lionel , when I say this , believe me I look back with regret to our tranquil life at Windsor .
he was respected by all who knew him for his integrity and indefatigable attention to public business .
Keats fell by a criticism .
the doers of the deed were material , and escaped materially .
this he does opening both its back and front doors and no person Is discovered .
only old Zebulon Whateley , who wanderingly remembered ancient things but who had been silent heretofore , spoke aloud .
with me this is not so .
very brightly did the moon shine on the night I answered the call , and I walked out over the waters to the White Ship on a bridge of moonbeams .
and surely , if among all my fellow creatures I were to select those who might stand forth examples of the greatness and goodness of man , I could choose no other than those allied to me by the most sacred ties .
my schooling first impelled her towards books ; and , if music had been the food of sorrow , the productions of the wise became its medicine .
the summer , which was uncommonly hot , had been protracted into the beginning of this month , when on the eighteenth a sudden change was brought about from summer temperature to winter frost .
I believed that the thunder called the death daemon out of some fearsome secret place ; and be that daemon solid entity or vaporous pestilence , I meant to see it .
do that which seems best to you : and if you can receive gratification from one mode of life in preference to another , do not let me be any obstacle .
our first meeting was at an obscure library in the Rue Montmartre , where the accident of our both being in search of the same very rare and very remarkable volume , brought us into closer communion .
for some weeks , indeed , I busied myself in earnest inquiry , or was wrapped in a cloud of morbid speculation .
round Yes , they went round and up , and round and up and round and up , until I could not help surmising , with the sagacious Pompey , upon whose supporting arm I leaned in all the confidence of early affection I could not help surmising that the upper end of the continuous spiral ladder had been accidentally , or perhaps designedly , removed .
sadly and slowly I stemmed my course from among the heaps of slain , and , guided by the twinkling lights of the town , at length reached Rodosto .
life and death appeared to me ideal bounds , which I should first break through , and pour a torrent of light into our dark world .
after that I paid him frequent overcoated calls ; listening while he told of secret researches and almost ghastly results , and trembling a bit when I examined the unconventional and astonishingly ancient volumes on his shelves .
England had been the scene of momentous struggles , during my early boyhood .
o , hours of intense delight short as ye were ye are made as long to me as a whole life when looked back upon through the mist of grief that rose immediately after as if to shut ye from my view .
as the sun , ere it is risen , sometimes paints its image In the atmosphere so often do the spirits Of great events stride on before the events , And in to day already walks to morrow .
&quot; what a noble creature was Raymond , the first among the men of our time .
all shepherd boys alike , while our flocks were spread over the pastures , we schemed and executed many a mischievous prank , which drew on us the anger and revenge of the rustics .
there was no light revealed above , and as my hands went higher I knew that my climb was for the nonce ended ; since the slab was the trap door of an aperture leading to a level stone surface of greater circumference than the lower tower , no doubt the floor of some lofty and capacious observation chamber .
for one thing , the bad odour of the house was strongest there ; and for another thing , we did not like the white fungous growths which occasionally sprang up in rainy summer weather from the hard earth floor .
it was , no doubt , the giant shape he had raved of in delirium .
the medallions are thin plates of brass , of an elliptical form , exactly resembling each other .
you are cruel , very cruel , to treat me who bleed at every pore in this rough manner . &quot;
I remembered only , and it was with a bitter anguish that I reflected on it , to order that my chemical instruments should be packed to go with me .
the period of our departure was fixed for the twenty fifth of November .
as he spoke , every heart swelled with pride , and every cheek glowed with delight to remember , that each one there was English , and that each supported and contributed to the happy state of things now commemorated .
&quot; while your former system was in operation &quot; I said , repeating his words &quot; do I understand you , then , to say that the &apos; soothing system &apos; of which I have heard so much is no longer in force ? &quot; &quot; it is now , &quot; he replied , &quot; several weeks since we have concluded to renounce it forever . &quot;
Adrian read it with deep interest ; and found there that living spirit of genius and wit he had so often heard commemorated .
fancy revelled in the wild and dreamy regions of the moon .
I dared not go farther than this reflection .
under this impression he listened to all I said ; and , elevated almost to joy by the near prospect of his departure , he entered into a discussion concerning the plans he should adopt in his own county , forgetting , for the moment , his cherished resolution of shutting himself up from all communication in the mansion and grounds of his estate .
gasping for breath , I lowered the lamp in still nearer proximity to the face .
the pillars of the piazza were enwreathed in jasmine and sweet honeysuckle ; while from the angle formed by the main structure and its west wing , in front , sprang a grape vine of unexampled luxuriance .
I found my poor girl , there is no exaggeration in the expression , wild with grief and dread .
its obscurity of situation rendered it the more conspicuous : the diminutive letters grew gigantic to the bewildered eye of fear : they seemed graven with a pen of iron , impressed by fire , woven in the clouds , stamped on the very front of the universe .
it was my beautiful girl of the little parlor .
thus it happened he became neither musician nor poet if we use this latter term in its every day acceptation .
Goethe has said , that in youth we cannot be happy unless we love .
in the semi gloom he trusted mostly to touch to select the right one , and indeed came upon it almost by accident , since it tumbled into his hands as if through some odd volition after he had unwittingly placed it beside another on the third layer .
he could not any longer delay his departure ; but as his journey to London might be followed , even sooner than he now conjectured , by his longer voyage , he entreated me to bestow as much of my society on him as I could spare .
I never saw a man in so wretched a condition .
&quot; and this Gentlewoman , &quot; said I , to Monsieur Maillard , bending over and addressing him in a whisper &quot; this good lady who has just spoken , and who gives us the cock a doodle de doo she , I presume , is harmless quite harmless , eh ? &quot; &quot; harmless &quot; ejaculated he , in unfeigned surprise , &quot; why why , what can you mean ? &quot; &quot; only slightly touched ? &quot; said I , touching my head .
after a while , as the days of waking became less and less bearable from their greyness and sameness , I would often drift in opiate peace through the valley and the shadowy groves , and wonder how I might seize them for my eternal dwelling place , so that I need no more crawl back to a dull world stript of interest and new colours .
every bone in the real duck had its representative In the automaton , and its wings were anatomically exact .
it was about two hundred yards in diameter , and girt in at all points but one that immediately fronting the vessel as it entered by hills equal in general height to the walls of the chasm , although of a thoroughly different character .
now there are fine tales in the volumes of the Magi in the iron bound , melancholy volumes of the Magi .
then grey dawn unfolded wetly from the east , silhouetting the archaic hill and its venerable steeples , and beckoning me to the place where my terrible work was still unfinished .
I wonder even now if it could have been other than a daemoniac dream of delirium .
&quot; did I not do right , &quot; said Perdita , &quot; in having my loved one conveyed hither ?
I struggled no more , but the agony of my soul found vent in one loud , long , and final scream of despair .
they walk unseen and foul in lonely places where the words have been spoken and the rites howled through at their seasons .
and when he opened his immense , sunken , and wildly luminous black eyes I knew he would be thenceforth my only friend the only friend of one who had never possessed a friend before for I saw that such eyes must have looked fully upon the grandeur and the terror of realms beyond normal consciousness and reality ; realms which I had cherished in fancy , but vainly sought .
moreover , in fastening it to the wharf , he would have felt as if securing evidence against himself .
over this muslin slip and the slip of lace , the strings of a bonnet were attached ; the bonnet being appended .
meanwhile Old Whateley continued to buy cattle without measurably increasing the size of his herd .
its paving was irregular , sometimes stone slabs , sometimes cobblestones , and sometimes bare earth with struggling greenish grey vegetation .
the prayer of my youth was to be one among those who render the pages of earth &apos;s history splendid ; who exalt the race of man , and make this little globe a dwelling of the mighty .
the general surface grew somewhat more smooth , and the whirlpools , one by one , disappeared , while prodigious streaks of foam became apparent where none had been seen before .
it is curious how intently I had been watching that fireplace .
he was often the gayest of our party , at the same time that he was the only one visited by fits of despondency ; his slender frame seemed overcharged with the weight of life , and his soul appeared rather to inhabit his body than unite with it .
he spoke with distinctness took some palliative medicines without aid and , when I entered the room , was occupied in penciling memoranda in a pocket book .
&apos;Tis ver goot name ; and so is Voissart dat is ver goot name too .
here , rich ermined priests , and pontifical dignitaries , familiarly seated with the autocrat and the sovereign , put a veto on the wishes of a temporal king , or restrained with the fiat of papal supremacy the rebellious sceptre of the Arch enemy .
I was tied by no separate cord .
it appears that about one hundred years prior to Mr. Ellison &apos;s attainment of his majority , there had died , in a remote province , one Mr. Seabright Ellison .
men have called me mad ; but the question is not yet settled , whether madness is or is not the loftiest intelligence whether much that is glorious whether all that is profound does not spring from disease of thought from moods of mind exalted at the expense of the general intellect .
the design had been re drawn ; but many defects still remained , and several of the instructions given had been misunderstood .
on October we found in the soft earth underneath the library window a series of footprints utterly impossible to describe .
it is almost erroneous to call them sounds at all , since so much of their ghastly , infra bass timbre spoke to dim seats of consciousness and terror far subtler than the ear ; yet one must do so , since their form was indisputably though vaguely that of half articulate words .
&quot; all the grounds are paved with brick .
for the venerable Elihu Whipple was muttering in French , and the few phrases I could distinguish seemed connected with the darkest myths he had ever adapted from the famous Paris magazine .
but the agony of my wound overcame me ; my pulses paused , and I fainted .
their track would be like the passage of the Red Sea , which they might traverse with unwet feet , though a wall of destruction were impending on either side .
in the first excitement of the moment the lady decides upon fainting outright .
grandfather kept me saying the Dho formula last night , and I think I saw the inner city at the magnetic poles .
long suffering had nearly annihilated all my ordinary powers of mind .
the road , however , except in being open through the wood if wood be not too weighty a name for such an assemblage of light trees and except in the particulars of evident wheel tracks bore no resemblance to any road I had before seen .
I watched her as she drank it .
here is a billet of wood , the circumference of which is about that of the throat .
the wind was from the East all night , and gave us the brightest omen of success .
the bishop pointed to the empty case and to the fireplace where the flames had died down amidst a charred , non committal mass , and seemed filled with a peculiar loathing .
&quot; and the treatment what was the particular species of treatment which the leader of the rebels put into operation ? &quot;
the life of my father is in the greatest danger , owing to the dreadful circumstance that I have related .
he was a man of courage undoubtedly .
it was no doubt the anomalous state of affairs existing between us , which turned all my attacks upon him , and they were many , either open or covert into the channel of banter or practical joke giving pain while assuming the aspect of mere fun rather than into a more serious and determined hostility .
he has been my torment and diurnal prison for forty two of your terrestrial years .
it was nightmare itself , and to see it was to die .
the following conversation then ensued : V. in the dialogue representing the patient , and P. myself .
and now &quot; &quot; And now , my dear fellow , for what are we come to London ?
the only egress was the aperture in the floor up to which the crude , steep staircase led .
I gasped for breath and yet the officers heard it not .
I am glad to recall that Dr. Johnson upheld me in this matter .
at any other time this disaster would have excited extreme compassion among us ; but it was now passed over , while each mind was engaged by the coming controversy .
Lord Northam was simpering inanities to his streaked cat , and started violently when the young man entered .
at the time it was to me only a seething , dimly phosphorescent cloud of fungous loathsomeness , enveloping and dissolving to an abhorrent plasticity the one object to which all my attention was focussed .
from the moment that she perceived the right line of conduct , she resolved to adopt it , and to part from Raymond for ever .
a month had gone by , and during that time he had not seen Evadne .
you will pardon me , therefore , if , upon this consideration , I deviate slightly from the general usage among gentlemen in similar cases of personal affront .
&quot; drink , &quot; I said , presenting him the wine .
when he arrived at her habitation all was silent in it : he made his way through several rooms ; in one he saw a servant weeping bitterly : he was faint with fear and could hardly ask , &quot; Is she dead ? &quot; and just listened to the dreadful answer , &quot; Not yet . &quot;
he then took me into his laboratory and explained to me the uses of his various machines , instructing me as to what I ought to procure and promising me the use of his own when I should have advanced far enough in the science not to derange their mechanism .
it was Alfred &apos;s birthday .
from February th to April nd a large proportion of them had dreamed very bizarre things , the intensity of the dreams being immeasurably the stronger during the period of the sculptor &apos;s delirium .
she questioned him with regard to the motives which had occasioned his critical absence .
so inconsiderately published , was merely a rough note book , meant only for the writer &apos;s own eye , but an inspection of the pamphlet will convince almost any thinking person of the truth of my suggestion .
&quot; I no longer hesitated what to do .
this plateau varies in width from ten to three hundred yards ; reaching from the river bank to a wall , fifty feet high , which extends , in an infinity of curves , but following the general direction of the river , until lost in the distance to the westward .
briefly consulting with Mrs. Herrero and the workmen despite a fear that gnawed my inmost soul , I advised the breaking down of the door ; but the landlady found a way to turn the key from the outside with some wire device .
of his stirring experience he would tell his friends no more than he had told the admiralty officials , and all they could do was to give me his Oslo address .
sometimes I joined him ; at such times his countenance was invariably solemn , his air dejected .
such were in part the arguments of Adrian , uttered with enthusiasm and unanswerable rapidity .
I was at first unable to solve these questions , but perpetual attention and time explained to me many appearances which were at first enigmatic .
plainly , most of my opponents were about to concentrate against the feeble connecting door which they knew must open directly on me .
yet a day , and men breathed with greater freedom .
there may be an infinity of other methods by which the same results may be obtained .
you ask me to explain why I am afraid of a draught of cool air ; why I shiver more than others upon entering a cold room , and seem nauseated and repelled when the chill of evening creeps through the heat of a mild autumn day .
when I had first seen her , she was attired , most becomingly , in deep mourning .
sitting down , I tried to conjecture as nearly as sanity would let me just what had happened , and how I might end the horror , if indeed it had been real .
several seemed quite dazed and stupid ; and after satisfying myself that they were not feigning their weakness , I excused them from their duties .
to the love of rule and haughty pride of birth she added determined ambition , patience , and self control .
it was in Constantinople ; but as each year that city experienced a like visitation , small attention was paid to those accounts which declared more people to have died there already , than usually made up the accustomed prey of the whole of the hotter months .
the brief moment in which I averted my eyes had been sufficient to produce , apparently , a material change in the arrangements at the upper or farther end of the room .
the effect of this intelligence upon my sister was striking .
I rejoice to see you looking life like and rational .
bits of shoe leather and fragments of apparel were scattered about the room , and just inside the window an empty canvas sack lay where it had evidently been thrown .
years dragged themselves along heavily , and still I dwelled within the Valley of the Many Colored Grass ; but a second change had come upon all things .
I have described the brook as meandering very irregularly through the whole of its course .
he was placed in it ; Perdita and Clara entered with him , and his escort closed round it ; a hollow murmur , akin to the roaring of the near waves , went through the multitude ; they fell back as the carriage advanced , and fearful of injuring him they had come to welcome , by loud testimonies of joy , they satisfied themselves with bending in a low salaam as the carriage passed ; it went slowly along the road of the Piraeus ; passed by antique temple and heroic tomb , beneath the craggy rock of the citadel .
it were an easy matter to multiply such histories as these but I forbear for , indeed , we have no need of such to establish the fact that premature interments occur .
if still you think me mad , you will think so no longer when I describe the wise precautions I took for the concealment of the body .
then , very suddenly , thought , and shuddering terror , and earnest endeavor to comprehend my true state .
a reddish glare , too , seemed to filter through the pale undergrowth beyond endless avenues of forest night .
there &apos;s hardly a month that you don &apos;t read of workmen finding bricked up arches and wells leading nowhere in this or that old place as it comes down you could see one near Henchman Street from the elevated last year .
the Athenians had expected their hero to return in triumph ; the women had taught their children to lisp his name joined to thanksgiving ; his manly beauty , his courage , his devotion to their cause , made him appear in their eyes almost as one of the ancient deities of the soil descended from their native Olympus to defend them .
&quot; for that matter , &quot; replied the old woman , &quot; if you mean about the gentleman you murdered , I believe that it were better for you if you were dead , for I fancy it will go hard with you however , that &apos;s none of my business ; I am sent to nurse you and get you well ; I do my duty with a safe conscience ; it were well if everybody did the same . &quot;
the only deep water seemed to be where the river poured out past the belfried structure and turned southward to join the ocean at the breakwater &apos;s end .
we must seek firing in the bowels of the earth , or the unkind atmosphere will fill us with rheums and aches .
my inference is this .
and I kept no reckoning of time or place , and the stars of my fate faded from heaven , and therefore the earth grew dark , and its figures passed by me like flitting shadows , and among them all I beheld only Morella .
&quot; a downright fire eater , and no mistake .
rule applies but to the excellences of avoidance to the virtues which deny or refrain .
feeling the need of more rest , I took a sedative and secured some more sleep .
tall and muscular as I was in form , I must have looked like , what indeed I was , the merest ruffian that ever trod the earth .
but three nights afterward Kuranes came again to Celephaïs .
for myself , I own that Ryland &apos;s words rang in my ears ; all the world was infected ; in what uncontaminated seclusion could I save my beloved treasures , until the shadow of death had passed from over the earth ?
I have felt it in the ocean ; in the falling of a meteor .
in the widest and noblest sense he was a poet .
the wide plain , the golden moonlight , the shadowy moving forms , and above all the shrill monotonous piping , produced an effect which almost paralysed me ; yet I noted amidst my fear that half of these tireless , mechanical dancers were the labourers whom I had thought asleep , whilst the other half were strange airy beings in white , half indeterminate in nature , but suggesting pale wistful naiads from the haunted fountains of the bog .
it was the model he was using and its background was merely the wall of the cellar studio in minute detail .
there were no voices , however , and it struck me that there was something subtly furtive about the creaking .
terrible and piercing was the shaft of ruddy refulgence that streamed through the Gothic window , and the whole chamber was brilliant with a splendour intense and unearthly .
Eleanor Wing soon celebrated her marriage to Karl Trever , a rising young lawyer , and of her former admirer retained only enough memory to dictate the naming of her only son , and the moral guidance of that handsome and headstrong youth .
the surface is very uneven , rising like the waves of a troubled sea , descending low , and interspersed by rifts that sink deep .
nor do I use the word prosperity in its mere wordly or external sense .
the king married ; and the haughty princess of Austria , who became , as queen of England , the head of fashion , looked with harsh eyes on his defects , and with contempt on the affection her royal husband entertained for him .
at length we bled him and put him to bed .
now I found myself upon an apparently abandoned road which I had chosen as the shortest cut to Arkham ; overtaken by the storm at a point far from any town , and confronted with no refuge save the antique and repellent wooden building which blinked with bleared windows from between two huge leafless elms near the foot of a rocky hill .
my eyes followed its outward or upward whirls with the eagerness of the most unmeaning despair ; they closed themselves spasmodically at the descent , although death would have been a relief , oh how unspeakable still I quivered in every nerve to think how slight a sinking of the machinery would precipitate that keen , glistening axe upon my bosom .
is not this a spectacle of woe ? behold &quot; I looked ; and the unseen figure , which still grasped me by the wrist , had caused to be thrown open the graves of all mankind , and from each issued the faint phosphoric radiance of decay , so that I could see into the innermost recesses , and there view the shrouded bodies in their sad and solemn slumbers with the worm .
for eyes we have no models in the remotely antique .
be so good as to look at that leg &quot; &quot; The devil &quot; and I turned again to her sister .
I had my head in , and was about to open the lantern , when my thumb slipped upon the tin fastening , and the old man sprang up in bed , crying out &quot; Who &apos;s there ? &quot;
the crone strained up to her knees and managed to cross her arms in a singular fashion , while Brown Jenkin pointed in a certain direction with a horribly anthropoid fore paw which it raised with evident difficulty .
we will go and see the premises with our own eyes .
she then related that , by the permission of Elizabeth , she had passed the evening of the night on which the murder had been committed at the house of an aunt at Chene , a village situated at about a league from Geneva .
human beings , their feelings and passions , would indeed be degraded if such a wretch as I felt pride .
there were some who even conceived that Mr. Ellison would divest himself forthwith of at least two thirds of his fortune as of utterly superfluous opulence ; enriching whole troops of his relatives by division of his superabundance .
he confided in me because I was his doctor , and because he probably felt the need of confiding in someone else after Davis died .
&quot; let the beetle drop through it , as far as the string will reach but be careful and not let go your hold of the string . &quot;
&quot; as soon as I was convinced that no assistance could save any part of the habitation , I quitted the scene and sought for refuge in the woods .
this is a species of writing which I have long known how to appreciate , although it is only since my late visit to Mr. Blackwood deputed by the society that I have been made aware of the exact method of composition .
when he climbed to the second story he paused at Elwood &apos;s door but saw that the other youth was out .
I became sick at heart .
&quot; translating , as before , we obtain good , which assures us that the first letter is A , and that the first two words are &apos; A good . &apos; &quot; it is now time that we arrange our key , as far as discovered , in a tabular form , to avoid confusion .
in early youth , the living drama acted around me , drew me heart and soul into its vortex .
I could reach the latter , from the platter beside me , to my mouth , with great effort , but no farther .
if you know any big words this is your chance for them .
she had seen that the finger of Death was upon her bosom that , like the ephemeron , she had been made perfect in loveliness only to die ; but the terrors of the grave to her lay solely in a consideration which she revealed to me , one evening at twilight , by the banks of the River of silence .
among them it is one with the firmament , and truly , it is hidden from them when the mist hides the stars or the sun .
heaven bless my beloved sister R.W. Letter August th , To Mrs. Saville , England So strange an accident has happened to us that I cannot forbear recording it , although it is very probable that you will see me before these papers can come into your possession .
rain was pouring down in torrents , and upon the southern horizon were flashes of the lightning that had so lately passed over our heads .
now , the other hand , Pompey , and with its aid I will get upon your shoulders . &quot;
that report , you say , is false ; and be assured , dear Justine , that nothing can shake my confidence in you for a moment , but your own confession . &quot;
but the phosphorescence remained , and I had difficulty in repressing a childish impulse to go to the porthole and seek its source .
I did not tell the older physicians of these things , for middle age is sceptical , cynical , and disinclined to accept new ideas .
&quot; come here &quot; Here he took me by the arm .
for my part , I make no doubt that a track of some sort must have existed in very remote times , as Pundit asserts ; for nothing can be clearer , to my mind , than that , at some period not less than seven centuries ago , certainly the Northern and Southern Kanadaw continents were united ; the Kanawdians , then , would have been driven , by necessity , to a great railroad across the continent .
and is not this in its kind happiness ?
his long improvised dirges will ring forever in my ears .
we made a hasty selection of such of the leaves , whose writing one at least of us could understand ; and then , laden with our treasure , we bade adieu to the dim hypaethric cavern , and after much difficulty succeeded in rejoining our guides .
though my vain previous searches had been exceedingly minute , I now had new data to test ; for my horrible grave crawl convinced me that at least one of the phases of the monstrosity had been an underground creature .
it appeared to be a kind of sitting room , for it had a table and several chairs , and an immense fireplace above which ticked an antique clock on a mantel .
awe at the unbelievable size of the greenish stone blocks , at the dizzying height of the great carven monolith , and at the stupefying identity of the colossal statues and bas reliefs with the queer image found in the shrine on the Alert , is poignantly visible in every line of the mate &apos;s frightened description .
he had a fine eye for colors and effects .
&quot; I suppose , &quot; said I , &quot; you missed the spot , in the first attempt at digging , through Jupiter &apos;s stupidity in letting the bug fall through the right instead of through the left eye of the skull . &quot;
as twilight fell on the wild autumnal slopes , a measured , hideous beating of strange drums floated down from afar in terrible rhythm .
in youth , the tulip tree , or Liriodendron Tulipferum , the most magnificent of American foresters , has a trunk peculiarly smooth , and often rises to a great height without lateral branches ; but , in its riper age , the bark becomes gnarled and uneven , while many short limbs make their appearance on the stem .
I had no personal acquaintance with the Doctor till , when I was presented to him at the Mitre tavern by Mr. James Boswell , a young Scotchman of excellent family and great Learning , but small Wit , whose metrical Effusions I had sometimes revis &apos;d .
but it was too late now .
&quot; thou bird of night , &quot; replied Raymond , &quot; what an eclipse do you throw across my bright thoughts , forcing me to call to mind that melancholy ruin , which stands in mental desolation , more irreparable than a fragment of a carved column in a weed grown field .
every house has a small garden before it , with a circular path , a sun dial , and twenty four cabbages .
the swell surpassed anything I had imagined possible , and that we were not instantly buried is a miracle .
I saw him on the point of repeating his blow , when , overcome by pain and anguish , I quitted the cottage , and in the general tumult escaped unperceived to my hovel . &quot;
this much I knew before my insistent questioning led my uncle to shew me the notes which finally embarked us both on our hideous investigation .
I will just copy a page or so out of my Day Book ; and this will save me the necessity of blowing my own trumpet a contemptible practice of which no high minded man will be guilty .
she could take our globe , fringed with mountains , girded by the atmosphere , containing the condition of our being , and all that man &apos;s mind could invent or his force achieve ; she could take the ball in her hand , and cast it into space , where life would be drunk up , and man and all his efforts for ever annihilated .
I endeavoured to divine the concealed meaning of his words .
I had reached Kilderry in the summer sunset , as the gold of the sky lighted the green of the hills and groves and the blue of the bog , where on a far islet a strange olden ruin glistened spectrally .
his second condition was the love of woman .
it was lying half buried in the sand , a corner sticking up .
you will now understand what I meant in suggesting that , had the purloined letter been hidden any where within the limits of the Prefect &apos;s examination in other words , had the principle of its concealment been comprehended within the principles of the Prefect its discovery would have been a matter altogether beyond question .
in the algebraical question , as it proceeds towards solution , the certainty of its operations remains altogether unimpaired .
for the occasional scene nothing can be better for the constant view nothing worse .
a deep sleep fell upon me a sleep like that of death .
the thing was finally stopped by a bullet , though not a fatal one , and was rushed to the local hospital amidst universal excitement and loathing .
&quot; if you wish to break the chains that bind us , say the word , and it shall be done I will take all the blame on myself , of harshness or unkindness , in the world &apos;s eye .
even a search had been instituted but of course nothing was to be discovered .
I revolved in my mind a thousand schemes by which I might obtain , hereafter , an introduction to the elder lady , or , for the present , at all events , a more distinct view of her beauty .
and even from this slight incident he contracted fresh gloom and an additional severity of manner .
the chief members of the state crowded round the new magistrate , and conducted him to the palace of government .
they were usually feeding I won &apos;t say on what .
from early habit , and natural affection , she selected me in preference to Adrian or Idris , to be the partner in her overflowings of delight ; perhaps , though apparently much unlike , some secret point of resemblance , the offspring of consanguinity , induced this preference .
the longer I listened , the more I was fascinated , until after a week I resolved to make the old man &apos;s acquaintance .
no trace of the assassin could be found , though relentless bands of peasants scoured the neighbouring woods and the meadow land around the hill .
they had been so imprisoned for more than a month , during which period Monsieur Maillard had generously allowed them not only the tar and feathers which constituted his &quot; system &quot; , but some bread and abundance of water .
for thought was still alive love and despair struggled still , and I writhed with unendurable pain .
at one time probably in middle life he had evidently been grossly fat ; but now he was horribly lean , the purple flesh hanging in loose pouches under his bleary eyes and upon his cheeks .
there is no real evidence , although Le Soleil so supposes , that the articles discovered had been more than a very few days in the thicket ; while there is much circumstantial proof that they could not have remained there , without attracting attention , during the twenty days elapsing between the fatal Sunday and the afternoon upon which they were found by the boys .
the gathering rain soon effaced this link with the scene of my ordeal , and reports could state no more than that I had appeared from a place unknown , at the entrance of a little black court off Perry Street .
thank God I did not then know what it was , else I should have died .
if you &apos;re just sightseeing , and looking for old time stuff , Innsmouth ought to be quite a place for you . &quot;
&quot; Pshaw , no but with all your nose ? &quot; &quot; every bit of it , my love , &quot; said I : so I gave it a twist or two , and found myself at Almack &apos;s .
after some show of uneasiness in sleep , he burst forth into a frenzy so powerful that the combined efforts of four men were needed to bind him in a strait jacket .
you were saying that &quot; for new individualities matter is necessary . &quot;
this is a leading principle in our faith , to which if you cannot readily assent , our conference is at an end . &quot;
many years ago , I contracted an intimacy with a Mr. William Legrand .
around it , upon coffin tressels , was seated a company of six .
the fishy odour was detestable , and I wondered I could stand it without fainting .
even if I die before you , my Perdita , treasure up my ashes till yours may mingle with mine .
it may well be imagined how powerfully I was affected by the annals of the Harrises .
she entreats him , as her deliverer , to walk in and be introduced to her big brother and her papa .
I felt convinced that however it might have been in former times , in the present stage of the world , no man &apos;s faculties could be developed , no man &apos;s moral principle be enlarged and liberal , without an extensive acquaintance with books .
perhaps there was something , amid all the extravagant demeanor of Legrand some air of forethought , or of deliberation , which impressed me .
something about the name of Ebenezer Holt caused me to look up sharply .
they pursued their way the following morning , leaving one of their company behind them , sick of the plague .
but as brother and sister often entertain a lively affection towards each other without desiring a more intimate union , may not such also be our case ?
the latter gentleman having acquaintances at Fort Moultrie , it was immediately resolved to descend in its vicinity .
this , at first sight , would seem an inadequate dependence ; but it was by no means so , for the buttons were not only very strong in themselves , but so close together that a very slight portion of the whole weight was supported by any one of them .
the roaring twilight abysses the green hillside the blistering terrace the pulls from the stars the ultimate black vortex the black man the muddy alley and the stairs the old witch and the fanged , furry horror the bubble congeries and the little polyhedron the strange sunburn the wrist wound the unexplained image the muddy feet the throat marks the tales and fears of the superstitious foreigners what did all this mean ?
cada piedra un piramide levanta , y cada flor costruye un monumento , cada edificio es un sepulcro altivo , cada soldado un esqueleto vivo . &quot;
I threw myself into the chaise that was to convey me away and indulged in the most melancholy reflections .
the lights of Oonai were not like those of Aira ; for they were harsh and glaring , while the lights of Aira shine as softly and magically as shone the moonlight on the floor by the window where Iranon &apos;s mother once rocked him to sleep with song .
I should be well pleased to close my eyes , never more to open them again .
I did proceed to Windsor , but not with the intention of remaining there .
a phial labelled &quot; laudanum , &quot; and emptied , was found near him .
its historical attributes had disappeared .
drowsiness , however , did not come ; and when I stopped to analyse my thoughts I found to my disquiet that I was really unconsciously listening for something listening for something which I dreaded but could not name .
alas he bore no portion in our mirth , save that his countenance , distorted with the plague , and his eyes , in which Death had but half extinguished the fire of the pestilence , seemed to take such interest in our merriment as the dead may haply take in the merriment of those who are to die .
a dearer one belongs to you , Perdita , mother of his child .
the space passed over in a single leap had been accurately measured , and was found to exceed , by an astounding difference , the wildest expectations of the most imaginative .
these things are observed during the canoe &apos;s gradual approach to what I have called the gate of the vista .
perhaps judging from the quantities of bootleg liquor they consumed they lay for most of the daylight hours in an alcoholic stupor .
the kind friend who presented me to General Smith whispered in my ear some few words of comment upon the man .
I remained in a recess of the rock , gazing on this wonderful and stupendous scene .
the God of heaven forgive me ever since I was condemned , my confessor has besieged me ; he threatened and menaced , until I almost began to think that I was the monster that he said I was .
the structure &apos;s once white paint was now grey and peeling , and the black and gold sign on the pediment was so faded that I could only with difficulty make out the words &quot; Esoteric Order of Dagon &quot; .
it was not , however until the fourth day from the period of disappearance that any thing satisfactory was ascertained respecting her .
my presence embarrassed her ; so that she dared not turn to meet her lover &apos;s eye , or trust her voice to assure him of her affection ; while a blush mantled her cheek , and her disconsolate air was exchanged for one expressive of deep felt joy .
in Austria , where obedience can be enforced , and no choice left but between an honourable prison and a fitting marriage . &quot;
they ought naturally to have come wholly from the visibly inhabited houses , yet in reality were often strongest inside the most rigidly boarded up facades .
Jupiter &apos;s countenance wore , for some minutes , as deadly a pallor as it is possible , in nature of things , for any negro &apos;s visage to assume .
I was immediately drawn to make this observation by occurrences that presented themselves to my personal experience .
it is by that satanic scourge that most recall the year , for truly terror brooded with bat wings over the piles of coffins in the tombs of Christchurch Cemetery ; yet for me there is a greater horror in that time a horror known to me alone now that Herbert West has disappeared .
yet he had one secret hidden from these dear friends ; a secret he had nurtured from his earliest years , and although he loved his fellow collegiates he would not trust it to the delicacy or sympathy of any one among them .
suddenly a peal of thunder , resonant even above the din of the swinish revelry , clave the very roof and laid a hush of fear upon the boisterous company .
&quot; the box &quot; vociferated Mr. Wyatt , still standing &quot; the box , I say Captain Hardy , you cannot , you will not refuse me .
so Gilman climbed upstairs again in a mental turmoil , convinced that he was either still dreaming or that his somnambulism had run to incredible extremes and led him to depredations in unknown places .
the compliment my friend rebutted as best he could , but the proposition he accepted at once , although its advantages were altogether provisional .
truly disappointment is the guardian deity of human life ; she sits at the threshold of unborn time , and marshals the events as they come forth .
this is another world , from that which late I inhabited , from that which is now your home .
he had been piqued by the failure of all his endeavors to ferret out the assassins .
so for generations did the sainted skull of Caius Anicius Magnus Furius Camillus Æmilianus Cornelius Valerius Pompeius Julius Ibidus , consul of Rome , favourite of emperors , and saint of the Romish church , lie hidden beneath the soil of a growing town .
she possessed that though such an assertion may appear a paradox which belongs to few , a capacity of happiness .
the moon was up , but I dared not look at it .
here then I stand , as I said , beside the fleet waters of the flowing years , and now away spread the sail , and strain with oar , hurrying by dark impending crags , adown steep rapids , even to the sea of desolation I have reached .
sheer fortunate chance gave me my reprieve for the connecting door before me was not only unlocked but actually ajar .
but the beating grew louder , louder I thought the heart must burst .
without knowing why , one hesitates to ask directions from the gnarled , solitary figures spied now and then on crumbling doorsteps or on the sloping , rock strown meadows .
of individual edifices not a trace could be discovered , and the proudest cities of mankind had utterly faded away from the face of the earth .
she erected a temple for him in the depth of her being , and each faculty was a priestess vowed to his service .
the chateau into which my valet had ventured to make forcible entrance , rather than permit me , in my desperately wounded condition , to pass a night in the open air , was one of those piles of commingled gloom and grandeur which have so long frowned among the Appennines , not less in fact than in the fancy of Mrs. Radcliffe .
reflecting upon this latter fact , we naturally refer the incongruity noticeable in the Chess Player to this peculiarity in the human organization .
he was to have gone for his betrothed at dusk , and to have escorted her home .
all created things are but the thoughts of God .
if you feel inclined to say &apos; bread and butter , &apos; do not by any means say it outright .
the garrison was now so much diminished , that it was evident that the city could easily have been carried by storm ; but both humanity and policy dictated a slower mode of proceeding .
Clerval desired the intercourse of the men of genius and talent who flourished at this time , but this was with me a secondary object ; I was principally occupied with the means of obtaining the information necessary for the completion of my promise and quickly availed myself of the letters of introduction that I had brought with me , addressed to the most distinguished natural philosophers .
oldest of all are the great rings of rough hewn stone columns on the hill tops , but these are more generally attributed to the Indians than to the settlers .
were my sojourns beyond the chained door about to be proclaimed to the world ?
no one was stirring in that dead street beside the river gorge , and the roar of the waterfalls quite drowned my footsteps .
long , long I had forgotten her .
we perceived a low carriage , fixed on a sledge and drawn by dogs , pass on towards the north , at the distance of half a mile ; a being which had the shape of a man , but apparently of gigantic stature , sat in the sledge and guided the dogs .
he admitted , however , although with hesitation , that much of the peculiar gloom which thus afflicted him could be traced to a more natural and far more palpable origin to the severe and long continued illness indeed to the evidently approaching dissolution of a tenderly beloved sister his sole companion for long years his last and only relative on earth .
when I repeat his words I wonder at my pertinacious folly ; I hardly know what feelings resistlessly impelled me .
at this moment , in fancy , I feel the refreshing chilliness of its deeply shadowed avenues , inhale the fragrance of its thousand shrubberies , and thrill anew with undefinable delight , at the deep hollow note of the church bell , breaking , each hour , with sullen and sudden roar , upon the stillness of the dusky atmosphere in which the fretted Gothic steeple lay imbedded and asleep .
the dust and cobwebs added their touch of the fearful ; and brave indeed was the boy who would voluntarily ascend the ladder to the attic , a vast raftered length lighted only by small blinking windows in the gable ends , and filled with a massed wreckage of chests , chairs , and spinning wheels which infinite years of deposit had shrouded and festooned into monstrous and hellish shapes .
if I don &apos;t like that damned subway , it &apos;s my own business ; and we got here more quickly anyhow in the taxi .
to verify the supposition , let us observe if the be seen often in couples for e is doubled with great frequency in English in such words , for example , as &apos; meet , &apos; &apos;.fleet , &apos; &apos; speed , &apos; &apos; seen , &apos; been , &apos; &apos; agree , &apos; c .
Sinivate , &quot; said I , imploringly , &quot; is he the man in the mask ? &quot; &quot; no o o &quot; said he , looking wise , &quot; nor the man in the mo o on . &quot;
the husbandmen were getting in their plenteous harvests , and the women and children , occupied by light rustic toils , formed groupes of happy , healthful persons , the very sight of whom carried cheerfulness to the heart .
his imagination was singularly vigorous and creative ; and no doubt it derived additional force from the habitual use of morphine , which he swallowed in great quantity , and without which he would have found it impossible to exist .
a shower of tears terminated her sad harangue .
I mean to say , that between Doctor Templeton and Bedloe there had grown up , little by little , a very distinct and strongly marked rapport , or magnetic relation .
the eyes were lustreless .
community of study and amusement developed the best parts of his character , his steady perseverance , generosity , and well governed firmness .
upon my word we have not made more than a hundred miles the hour since leaving home The very birds beat us at least some of them .
neither was its message it had merely screamed , &quot; jump , Ronald , for God &apos;s sake , jump &quot; The awful thing was its source .
the perpetual recurrence of his name , joined to most honourable testimonials , in the Greek gazettes , kept up the interest he had excited .
these questions continually recurred , but I was unable to solve them .
this is one of the mysteries of our nature , which holds full sway over me , and from whose influence I cannot escape .
I presume that no member of the party then present had been unaccustomed to death bed horrors ; but so hideous beyond conception was the appearance of M. Valdemar at this moment , that there was a general shrinking back from the region of the bed .
&quot; what a mistake Ryland made , &quot; said Raymond , &quot; when he thought to overpower me the other night .
they described it in much detail , and with many interviews to elucidate the horror &apos;s history as told by local grandams .
and it was then that Nyarlathotep came out of Egypt .
what still remained down in that hell hive , lurking and waiting for the thunder to arouse it , I did not know .
at length I bethought me of applying to my companion .
be happy , my friend ; and if you obey me in this one request , remain satisfied that nothing on earth will have the power to interrupt my tranquillity .
let me be brief brief as the ruin that overwhelmed .
suddenly my spade struck something softer than earth .
but this was useless ; his attempt was registered ; his purpose published to the world ; his shame could never be erased from the memories of men .
but alas for the pure contemplative spirit and majestic intuition of Plato Alas for the which he justly regarded as an all sufficient education for the soul Alas for him and for it since both were most desperately needed when both were most entirely forgotten or despised .
&quot; my dear Frankenstein , &quot; exclaimed he , &quot; how glad I am to see you How fortunate that you should be here at the very moment of my alighting &quot; Nothing could equal my delight on seeing Clerval ; his presence brought back to my thoughts my father , Elizabeth , and all those scenes of home so dear to my recollection .
notwithstanding this niggardly spirit , however , the gentleman showed his consideration for me in all other respects , and indeed treated me with the greatest civility .
the impossibility of egress , by means already stated , being thus absolute , we are reduced to the windows .
it had a wild and rocky appearance , but as I approached nearer I easily perceived the traces of cultivation .
on my arrival , I found that an order had already gone forth for the army to proceed immediately towards Constantinople ; and the troops which had suffered least in the battle were already on their way .
no one appeared on the walls ; the very portals , though locked and barred , seemed unguarded ; above , the many domes and glittering crescents pierced heaven ; while the old walls , survivors of ages , with ivy crowned tower and weed tangled buttress , stood as rocks in an uninhabited waste .
to my inexperience we at first appeared on the eve of a civil war ; each party was violent , acrimonious , and unyielding .
the Americans were eager to escape from the spirit they had roused , and , reaching the eastern shores of the island , embarked for England .
in a subsequent number of the paper , an attempt was made to throw suspicion upon Beauvais himself .
just opposite the promontory upon whose apex we were placed , and at a distance of some five or six miles out at sea , there was visible a small , bleak looking island ; or , more properly , its position was discernible through the wilderness of surge in which it was enveloped .
looking upward , I surveyed the ceiling of my prison .
from the few words thus preserved , we glean several important items of knowledge , not the least interesting of which is the fact that a thousand years ago actual monuments had fallen into disuse as was all very proper the people contenting themselves , as we do now , with a mere indication of the design to erect a monument at some future time ; a corner stone being cautiously laid by itself &quot; solitary and alone &quot; excuse me for quoting the great American poet Benton , as a guarantee of the magnanimous intention .
but in the country , among the scattered farm houses , in lone cottages , in fields , and barns , tragedies were acted harrowing to the soul , unseen , unheard , unnoticed .
no one could love a child more than I loved your brother &quot; tears came into his eyes as he spoke &quot; but is it not a duty to the survivors that we should refrain from augmenting their unhappiness by an appearance of immoderate grief ?
bobbing up and down , for a few seconds , like an apple in a bowl of toddy , he , at length , finally disappeared amid the whirlpool of foam which , in the already effervescent liquor , his struggles easily succeeded in creating .
from billows a thousand times more stupendous than any I have ever seen , we glide away with the facility of the arrowy sea gull ; and the colossal waters rear their heads above us like demons of the deep , but like demons confined to simple threats and forbidden to destroy .
the woman , who did not know him , contemptuously asked , how he thought she should gain admittance , particularly on a festal night , to that lady &apos;s presence ?
my name is Jervas Dudley , and from earliest childhood I have been a dreamer and a visionary .
besides , the hair of a madman is not such as I now hold in my hand .
it is a decade now since he moved into Gray &apos;s Inn , and of where he had been he would say nothing till the night young Williams bought the Necronomicon .
in his conversation he probably supplied many additional details ; the nature of which will never be known , since a hideous series of tragedies suddenly burst into being .
therein it is said &quot; que le diable n &apos;ose pas refuser un jeu d &apos;ecarte . &quot;
Ryland began by praising the present state of the British empire .
by means of the rudder we instantly effected the necessary change of direction , and our course was brought nearly at right angles to that of the wind ; when we set in motion the spring of the screw , and were rejoiced to find it propel us readily as desired .
for eighteen months the Minister has had her in his power .
the general use which may be made of the table is obvious but , in this particular cipher , we shall only very partially require its aid .
they &apos;d ruther not start risin &apos; an &apos; wipin &apos; aout humankind , but ef they was gave away an &apos; forced to , they cud do a lot toward jest that .
and when now , dear Una , approaching the bed upon which I lay outstretched , you sat gently by my side , breathing odor from your sweet lips , and pressing them upon my brow , there arose tremulously within my bosom , and mingling with the merely physical sensations which circumstances had called forth , a something akin to sentiment itself a feeling that , half appreciating , half responded to your earnest love and sorrow ; but this feeling took no root in the pulseless heart , and seemed indeed rather a shadow than a reality , and faded quickly away , first into extreme quiescence , and then into a purely sensual pleasure as before .
I dun &apos;t know haow he done it , but he begun by tradin &apos; fer the gold like things they wore .
I hastened to return home , and Elizabeth eagerly demanded the result .
had the old man died before revealing where his treasure was hidden , and had a thorough search become necessary ?
upon the succession of a proprietor so young , with a character so well known , to a fortune so unparalleled , little speculation was afloat in regard to his probable course of conduct .
he led the Greek armies to victory ; their triumphs were all his own .
the attendant whom I had stationed to watch her , replied , &quot; to England . &quot;
more and more I reflected , and wondered what hoary secrets might abide in this high apartment so many aeons cut off from the castle below .
now this was a circumstance the more to be observed , as Pfaall , with three companions , had actually disappeared from Rotterdam about five years before , in a very sudden and unaccountable manner , and up to the date of this narrative all attempts had failed of obtaining any intelligence concerning them whatsoever .
&quot; then I cursed the elements with the curse of tumult ; and a frightful tempest gathered in the heaven where , before , there had been no wind .
the clock strikes , and is the knell of our welfare .
all through late August he fortified himself with the massed lore of cryptography ; drawing upon the fullest resources of his own library , and wading night after night amidst the arcana of Trithemius &apos; Poligraphia , Giambattista Porta &apos;s De Furtivis Literarum Notis , De Vigenère &apos;s Traité des Chiffres , Falconer &apos;s Cryptomenysis Patefacta , Davys &apos; and Thicknesse &apos;s eighteenth century treatises , and such fairly modern authorities as Blair , von Marten , and Klüber &apos;s Kryptographik .
often , when all was dry , the heavens cloudless , and I was parched by thirst , a slight cloud would bedim the sky , shed the few drops that revived me , and vanish .
however , the delightfully luminous conversation of Brevet Brigadier General John A. B. C. Smith soon completely dissipated this chagrin .
&quot; and why not to night ? &quot;
&quot; the pipe , &quot; said he . &quot; it is farther on , &quot; said I ; &quot; but observe the white web work which gleams from these cavern walls . &quot;
I lament now , I must ever lament , those few short months of paradisaical bliss ; I disobeyed no command , I ate no apple , and yet I was ruthlessly driven from it .
here is a woman strangled to death by manual strength , and thrust up a chimney , head downward .
a few days before , a tempest struck vessel had appeared off the town : the hull was parched looking and cracked , the sails rent , and bent in a careless , unseamanlike manner , the shrouds tangled and broken .
I now stepped through the low window into the brilliantly lighted room , stepping as I did so from my single bright moment of hope to my blackest convulsion of despair and realisation .
he thought it extravagant to play upon wind instruments .
but Oonai was a city of lutes and dancing , so Iranon and Romnod went down the steep slope that they might find men to whom songs and dreams would bring pleasure .
they conversed with one another through the means of an interpreter , and sometimes with the interpretation of looks ; and Safie sang to him the divine airs of her native country .
shaking this off with a gasp and a struggle , I uplifted myself upon the pillows , and , peering earnestly within the intense darkness of the chamber , harkened I know not why , except that an instinctive spirit prompted me to certain low and indefinite sounds which came , through the pauses of the storm , at long intervals , I knew not whence .
she was too full of new ideas to feel much pain when we departed ; she took an affectionate leave of us , and promised to visit us soon ; but she did not regret the circumstances that caused our separation .
the machine is then rolled back , and a curtain hides it from the view of the company .
it was not , however , until late in the afternoon that I fully succeeded in my arduous undertaking .
what he saw he did not like , so pressed his fingers to his lips and tiptoed around to shut and lock all the windows before returning to the ancient settle beside his guest .
my mother was dead , but we had still duties which we ought to perform ; we must continue our course with the rest and learn to think ourselves fortunate whilst one remains whom the spoiler has not seized .
she abstained from food ; she lay on the bare earth , and , by such mimickry of his enforced torments , endeavoured to hold communion with his distant pain .
suppose I could find no egress from this building on the street side ?
the summits are too rounded and symmetrical to give a sense of comfort and naturalness , and sometimes the sky silhouettes with especial clearness the queer circles of tall stone pillars with which most of them are crowned .
in a small motor car we covered the miles of primeval forest and hill until the wooded ascent checked it .
a sudden burst of song and merriment seemed to sting her to the heart ; she murmured , &quot; Can he have the heart ? &quot; and then mustering her courage , she stepped within the threshold .
here , at least , there should be no chance for equivocation .
his head was broken in , and everything was tumbled about .
&quot; Wist , my dear fellow you forget .
they were calling him back along the years , and with the mingled wills of all his fathers were pulling him toward some hidden and ancestral source .
these tidings were at first whispered about town ; but no one dared express aloud the soul quailing intelligence .
and fear grew vaguely yet swiftly , so that the princes of Ilarnek and of far Rokol took down and folded their tents and pavilions and departed for the river Ai , though they scarce knew the reason for their departing .
now , when one dreams , and , in the dream , suspects that he dreams , the suspicion never fails to confirm itself , and the sleeper is almost immediately aroused .
Mr. Gibbon was none too well lik &apos;d , for he had an odious sneering Way which offended even those of us who most admir &apos;d his historical Productions .
and still the old houses stood , with their forgotten lore of nobler , departed centuries ; of sturdy colonial tenants and dewy rose gardens in the moonlight .
although , as I say , the sun had arisen , yet the room was still brilliantly lighted up .
now for the Piquant Expressions .
&quot; &apos; her foot , &apos; says the journal , &apos; was small so are thousands of feet .
if I left the woods , the solemn music of the waving branches , and the majestic temple of nature , I sought the vast halls of the Castle , and looked over wide , fertile England , spread beneath our regal mount , and listened the while to inspiring strains of music .
even where the affections are not strongly moved by any superior excellence , the companions of our childhood always possess a certain power over our minds which hardly any later friend can obtain .
we now worked in earnest , and never did I pass ten minutes of more intense excitement .
my own fancy grew warm with the Medoc .
I followed the flying sheets in desperation , but they were gone before I reached the demolished panes .
&quot; will you introduce me ? &quot; &quot; assuredly , with the greatest pleasure ; when shall it be ? &quot; &quot; to morrow , at one , I will call upon you at B &apos; s . &quot; &quot; very good ; and now do hold your tongue , if you can . &quot;
V. Yes ; organs are contrivances by which the individual is brought into sensible relation with particular classes and forms of matter , to the exclusion of other classes and forms .
you suppose me a very old man but I am not .
my own outer door I reinforced by pushing the bureau against it little by little , in order to make a minimum of sound .
Ryland &apos;s fervour increased his eyes lighted up his voice assumed the tone of passion .
the sound of the incoming tide was now very insistent , and little by little it seemed to change the old man &apos;s mood from maudlin tearfulness to watchful fear .
he has the whole air , in fact , of your well to do , sober sided , exact , and respectable &quot; man of business , &quot; par excellence one of the stern and outwardly hard , internally soft , sort of people that we see in the crack high comedies fellows whose words are so many bonds , and who are noted for giving away guineas , in charity , with the one hand , while , in the way of mere bargain , they exact the uttermost fraction of a farthing with the other .
but the grand question was still unsettled of how this epidemic was generated and increased .
at first the ravenous animals were startled and terrified at the change at the cessation of movement .
they had been observed to pass among the satellites of Jupiter , without bringing about any sensible alteration either in the masses or in the orbits of these secondary planets .
but I will get rid of the whole together .
presently , as I gazed abstractedly at the moonlit panorama , my eye became attracted by something singular in the nature and arrangement of a certain topographical element .
the gentleman who attended her knew my person , and told her who I was .
&quot; we have received several forcibly written communications , apparently from various sources , and which go far to render it a matter of certainty that the unfortunate Marie Rogêt has become a victim of one of the numerous bands of blackguards which infest the vicinity of the city upon Sunday .
without previously communicating with me , he had , in concert with Elizabeth , arranged that Clerval should join me at Strasbourg .
it is broken : I have quitted England for many years , perhaps for ever .
with a feeling of deep yet most singular affection I regarded my friend Morella .
don &apos;t you know there was a mill on Copp &apos;s Hill in , and that half the present streets were laid out by ?
arter the war it was jest as bad agin .
&quot; the old man paused and then continued , &apos; If you will unreservedly confide to me the particulars of your tale , I perhaps may be of use in undeceiving them .
Adrian tore off his military scarf and bound it round the sufferer it was too late the man heaved a deep sigh , his head fell back , his limbs lost their sustaining power .
his fears had been ever since growing upon him .
a boat was at hand , in which he escaped to the opposite bank of the river .
sometimes he thought of applying to the king ; pride and shame for a while withheld him ; and , before his necessities became so imperious as to compel him to some kind of exertion , he died .
no amount of persuasion , however , could induce the stolid landlord to let him investigate either of these two closed spaces .
I had had some experience in these fits of perversity , whose nature I have been at some trouble to explain , and I remembered well that in no instance I had successfully resisted their attacks .
you will remember , Mr. Rumgudgeon , that I called with Capt.
the stars and the sun must not rise at the same period to us : he must not say , looking at the setting crescent of the moon , &quot; Mathilda now watches its fall . &quot;
the great error lies in supposing that even the truths of what is called pure algebra , are abstract or general truths .
and now it was , fairest and dearest , that we wrapped our spirits , daily , in dreams .
I revived my thoughts of euthanasia , and examined my automatic pistol .
I will briefly relate his history that you may judge how cold my heart must have been not to be warmed by his eloquent words and tender sympathy ; and how he also being most unhappy we were well fitted to be a mutual consolation to each other , if I had not been hardened to stone by the Medusa head of misery .
there reigned unusual silence in the chamber .
for a moment he looked disturbed &quot; I might have foreseen this , &quot; he said , &quot; what strife will now ensue Pardon me , Lionel , nor wonder that the expectation of contest with my mother should jar me , when else I should delightedly confess that my best hopes are fulfilled , in confiding my sister to your protection .
I must say that I was gratified with this high toned notice from a paper so respectable as the &quot; Owl . &quot;
it was formerly occupied by a jeweller , who under let the upper rooms to various persons .
at the request of Usher , I personally aided him in the arrangements for the temporary entombment .
about midnight she spoke to the latter , saying that she had had a bad dream , and bade her go to her daughter , and bring word whether she rested quietly .
for several weeks , in the discussion of this one absorbing theme , even the momentous political topics of the day were forgotten .
then , on a sleepless night &apos;s walk , I met the man .
rushing out into the snow , he had flung his arms aloft and commenced a series of leaps directly upward in the air ; the while shouting his determination to reach some &apos; big , big cabin with brightness in the roof and walls and floor , and the loud queer music far away &apos; .
if there be two edges to the fabric if , for example , it be a pocket handkerchief , and it is desired to tear from it a slip , then , and then only , will the one force serve the purpose .
poor Justine was very ill ; but other trials were reserved for her .
I know not why but I found it sweet to utter these words to human ears ; and though I derided all consolation yet I was pleased to see it offered me with gentleness and kindness .
the Throckmorton lot had later , of course , been much subdivided ; and I became very assiduous in tracing that section through which Back or Benefit Street was later run .
Woodville for the first time felt the delight of love ; and Elinor was enraptured in possessing the heart of one so beautiful and glorious among his fellow men .
its impressions were tardily received , but pertinaciously retained , and resulted always in the highest physical pleasure .
having arrived at home safely with these , I devoted every spare moment to their perusal , and soon made such proficiency in studies of this nature as I thought sufficient for the execution of my plan .
this addition disturbed him more than he could account for , but finally he decided that it was like an ancient crone whom he had twice actually encountered in the dark tangle of lanes near the abandoned wharves .
you remember , Mr. Rumgudgeon , I called , this day year to bid you good bye .
what has been , though sweet , is gone ; the present is good only because it is about to change , and the to come is all my own .
I wept and said , &quot; Oh , pardon me You are good and kind but I am not fit for life .
he spoke well , very well ; such an harangue would have succeeded better addressed to me singly , than to the fools and knaves assembled yonder .
it was just as he had recognised old Matt &apos;s coffin that the door slammed to in the wind , leaving him in a dusk even deeper than before .
the house , it is true , was still in good condition ; and the street had been widened and changed in name from Back Street to Benefit Street .
an excited and highly distempered ideality threw a sulphureous lustre over all .
sometimes the peasants , scared by this horrid apparition , informed me of his path ; sometimes he himself , who feared that if I lost all trace of him I should despair and die , left some mark to guide me .
and many titles of the wise and beautiful , of old and modern times , of my own and foreign lands , came thronging to my lips , with many , many fair titles of the gentle , and the happy , and the good .
the hallway inside was black , and when I reached the opposite end I saw that the street door was wedged immovably shut .
but let us not deceive ourselves .
in truth , while that virtue which consists in the mere avoidance of vice appeals directly to the understanding , and can thus be circumscribed in rule , the loftier virtue , which flames in creation , can be apprehended in its results alone .
but at the time , I thought only of preserving my life .
I consider myself , therefore , a made man , and am bargaining for a country seat on the Hudson .
the burning sun of India , and the freedom from all restraint had rather encreased the energy of his character : before he bowed under , now he was impatient of any censure except that of his own mind .
but I was doomed to live and in two months found myself as awaking from a dream , in a prison , stretched on a wretched bed , surrounded by jailers , turnkeys , bolts , and all the miserable apparatus of a dungeon .
I like to think that he existed at that moment , and that he tried to bid me farewell .
this the mass of mankind saw not , or , living lustily although unhappily , affected not to see .
occasionally , however , when the piece is not precisely in its proper situation , the Automaton fails in his attempt at seizing it .
as soon as I heard that she had spoken , I sent Clara to her , that the sight of the lovely innocent might inspire gentle and affectionate thoughts .
the fingers were strikingly short in proportion to the rest of the structure , and seemed to have a tendency to curl closely into the huge palm .
we hastened to the palace of the Protectorate .
had the pirate recovered his money , there the affair would have dropped .
&quot; let us suppose now you have determined upon your incidents and tone .
accident victims were our best hope .
of this defect I did not fail to take what poor advantage lay in my power .
Idris , panic struck , but animated and strengthened even by her excessive fear , dressed herself hurriedly , and going down a flight of back stairs , avoiding the vicinity of her mother &apos;s apartment , she contrived to escape from the castle by a low window , and came through snow , wind , and obscurity to my cottage ; nor lost her courage , until she arrived , and , depositing her fate in my hands , gave herself up to the desperation and weariness that overwhelmed her .
from one of these , which purported to be a translation of one Dante &apos;s &quot; Inferno , &quot; I copied with remarkable neatness a long passage about a man named Ugolino , who had a parcel of brats .
the door was beaten with what appeared to be a sledge hammer , and the shutters were wrenched and shaken with prodigious violence .
she tried to throw a veil over the change which she knew her brother must observe in her , but the effort was ineffectual ; and when alone with him , with a burst of irrepressible grief she gave vent to her apprehensions and sorrow .
to be sure , it was , to all appearance , radically different from the one of which the Prefect had read us so minute a description .
have I not indeed been living in a dream ?
he went early to college and studied pneumatics .
most appeared to be of marble , gleaming whitely in the rays of the searchlight , and the general plan was of a large city at the bottom of a narrow valley , with numerous isolated temples and villas on the steep slopes above .
a great many amusing stories were told , having reference to the whims of the patients .
in about a week after this conversation , the following paragraphs appeared in a Charlottesville paper : &quot; we have the painful duty of announcing the death of Mr. Augustus Bedlo , a gentleman whose amiable manners and many virtues have long endeared him to the citizens of Charlottesville .
I had taken Pompey &apos;s arm .
never before that night had I felt the extent of my own powers of my sagacity .
these , however , are the very description of people who will always be found to have handkerchiefs even when destitute of shirts .
&quot; there is one painting , &quot; said he , without being aware of my notice of the tragedy &quot; there is still one painting which you have not seen . &quot;
in the year , early in the morning of Sexagesima Sunday , it raged with such noise and impetuosity that the very stones of the houses on the coast fell to the ground . &quot;
a man passed by my place of concealment with a feeble and unsteady gait .
once more under control , the ship was making good progress when held up by the Alert on March nd , and I could feel the mate &apos;s regret as he wrote of her bombardment and sinking .
my Gawd , the sal ammoniac that man use for keep heem cool &quot; Mrs. Herrero disappeared up the staircase to the fourth floor , and I returned to my room .
yet I believe that I met her first and most frequently in some large , old , decaying city near the Rhine .
&quot; will you go to Almack &apos;s , pretty creature ? &quot;
there was a sensibility and sweetness in his disposition , that gave a tender and unearthly tone to our converse .
Amontillado You have been imposed upon .
with due formality Slater was tried for murder , acquitted on the ground of insanity , and committed to the institution wherein I held so humble a post .
I knew my victim &apos;s habit of reading in bed .
in the meantime , however , lower and still lower toward the goodly city , came the object of so much curiosity , and the cause of so much smoke .
there was also a subtler thing we often thought we detected a very strange thing which was , however , merely suggestive at most .
an &apos; this is the important part , young feller them as turned into fish things an &apos; went into the water wouldn &apos;t never die .
some romantic village , some cottage , or elegant abode there situated , inhabited by the lovely and the good , rose before my mental sight , and the question haunted me , is the plague there also ?
here , too , we are freed , at the commencement , from all supposition of self murder .
I cannot rest for the cry of these great agonies .
hell itself might have been found a fitting image .
summer advanced , and , crowned with the sun &apos;s potent rays , plague shot her unerring shafts over the earth .
&quot; what do you mean by yowling in that ere kind of style , like a cattymount ? &quot; said a fourth ; and hereupon I was seized and shaken without ceremony , for several minutes , by a junto of very rough looking individuals .
it resisted the utmost force of those who endeavored to raise it .
that single thought is enough .
of course nothing could be said in my defence .
the right arm , however , should lie more at length upon the box , a chess board should appear upon it , and the cushion should not be seen while the pipe is held .
it was a flaming sunset or late afternoon in the tiny provincial town of Pompelo , at the foot of the Pyrenees in Hispania Citerior .
I mused upon the alteration in their nature .
but there are no people I more heartily despise than your eccentric fools who prate about method without understanding it ; attending strictly to its letter , and violating its spirit .
none was more conspicuous for this graceful submission to circumstances , noble humility , and ingenious fancy to adorn such acts with romantic colouring , than our own Clara .
some of these things have made me faint , others have convulsed me with devastating nausea , while still others have made me tremble and look behind me in the dark ; yet despite the worst of them I believe I can myself relate the most hideous thing of all the shocking , the unnatural , the unbelievable horror from the shadows .
my father had been connected with nobles , but all I knew of such connection was subsequent neglect .
I had no pretence for my hesitation ; and on his repeating his farewell , I clasped his outstretched hand ; it was cold and clammy .
he considered queer and out of fashion all opinions that were exploded by his circle of intimates , and he became at the same time dogmatic and yet fearful of not coinciding with the only sentiments he could consider orthodox .
a heavy club of wood , or a broad bar of iron a chair any large , heavy , and obtuse weapon would have produced such results , if wielded by the hands of a very powerful man .
my papa is a syndic he is M. Frankenstein he will punish you .
but in this chamber only , the color of the windows failed to correspond with the decorations .
&quot; but naow I &apos;ll shew ye the best un over here nigh the middle &quot; The old man &apos;s speech grew a trifle thicker and his eyes assumed a brighter glow ; but his fumbling hands , though seemingly clumsier than before , were entirely adequate to their mission .
I revolved in my mind the events which I had until now sought to forget : the whole train of my progress toward the creation ; the appearance of the works of my own hands at my bedside ; its departure .
had I a child , or any tie to bind me to existence , I might descend to this but , as it is the world has been to me a harsh step mother ; fain would I leave the abode she seems to grudge , and in the grave forget my pride , my struggles , my despair .
it was the end of my experience , and is the end of my story .
as two men of moderate size sought to restrain him , he had struggled with maniacal force and fury , screaming of his desire and need to find and kill a certain &apos; thing that shines and shakes and laughs &apos; .
the master is a person of an excellent disposition and is remarkable in the ship for his gentleness and the mildness of his discipline .
he groped his way out with face tightly bandaged , and I never saw his eyes again .
I should never wed , for since no other branches of my family were in existence , I might thus end the curse with myself .
Armitage muttered half aloud to himself .
I revolved these circumstances in my mind and determined thenceforth to apply myself more particularly to those branches of natural philosophy which relate to physiology .
he has been accustomed to quiet .
Perdita looked down , confused , yet pleased .
come on , my enemy ; we have yet to wrestle for our lives , but many hard and miserable hours must you endure until that period shall arrive . &quot;
am I to be thought the only criminal , when all humankind sinned against me ?
Adrian and Idris were together .
heard it as I sat petrified in that unknown cemetery in the hollow , amidst the crumbling stones and the falling tombs , the rank vegetation and the miasmal vapours .
I have dwelt many months in the heaths of England and among the deserts of Scotland .
sometimes my pulse beat so quickly and hardly that I felt the palpitation of every artery ; at others , I nearly sank to the ground through languor and extreme weakness .
she had not wept before .
he could not fail to interest even one who had shut herself from the whole world , whose hope was death , and who lived only with the departed .
are you weary of life , O Adrian , that you thus play with danger ?
unless for default of this renovation , I could see no reason , therefore , why life could not be sustained even in a vacuum ; for the expansion and compression of chest , commonly called breathing , is action purely muscular , and the cause , not the effect , of respiration .
on the twentieth of November , Adrian and I rode for the last time through the streets of London .
the monster , in terror , had fled the premises forever I should behold it no more My happiness was supreme The guilt of my dark deed disturbed me but little .
I now bored a hole in the end of the keg over the pitcher , and fitted in a plug of soft wood , cut in a tapering or conical shape .
even such is she still .
an Italian lad had got an audience about him , and with animated gestures was describing some scene of horror .
my destiny prevailed .
my own thoughts on the subject had rested in the idea that the primitive intention of nature would have so arranged the earth &apos;s surface as to have fulfilled at all points man &apos;s sense of perfection in the beautiful , the sublime , or the picturesque ; but that this primitive intention had been frustrated by the known geological disturbances disturbances of form and color grouping , in the Correction or allaying of which lies the soul of art .
although , as boys , we had been even intimate associates , yet I really knew little of my friend .
the vegetation , as might be supposed , is scant , or at least dwarfish .
we , his staff , followed him to surround and protect him ; obeying his signal , however , we fell back somewhat .
the Duke was supported by all the aristocrats of the republic , who considered him their proper representative .
I need not describe the feelings of those whose dearest ties are rent by that most irreparable evil , the void that presents itself to the soul , and the despair that is exhibited on the countenance .
and now , too , there was a growing feeling that somebody was constantly persuading him to do something terrible which he could not do .
the tortures of the accused did not equal mine ; she was sustained by innocence , but the fangs of remorse tore my bosom and would not forgo their hold .
one sight of the thing had been enough to throw the assembled men of science into a state of tense excitement , and they lost no time in crowding around him to gaze at the diminutive figure whose utter strangeness and air of genuinely abysmal antiquity hinted so potently at unopened and archaic vistas .
&quot; out , &quot; said the footman Talbot &apos;s own .
his father , Thomas Bob , Esq . , is an opulent merchant in Smug .
Marie , whose Christian and family name will at once arrest attention from their resemblance to those of the unfortunate &quot; cigargirl , &quot; was the only daughter of the widow Estelle Rogêt .
his tale had occupied the whole day , and the sun was upon the verge of the horizon when he departed .
what the coming summer would bring , we knew not ; but the present months were our own , and our hopes of a cessation of pestilence were high .
but such is not my destiny ; I must pursue and destroy the being to whom I gave existence ; then my lot on earth will be fulfilled and I may die . &quot;
having perceived at last the hollowness and futility of real things , Carter spent his days in retirement , and in wistful disjointed memories of his dream filled youth .
this doubt was decided on the following day .
he had an absolute passion for oratory , and could not refrain from display .
another winter was before us , and we might elect our mode of passing it to the best advantage .
the temperature of Bedloe was , in the highest degree sensitive , excitable , enthusiastic .
at last fate had been kind , so that on this occasion there lay in the secret cellar laboratory a corpse whose decay could not by any possibility have begun .
if I were engaged in any high undertaking or design , fraught with extensive utility to my fellow creatures , then could I live to fulfil it .
CHAPTER It was on a dreary night of November that I beheld the accomplishment of my toils .
my friend was vastly in advance as we plunged into this awesome ocean of virgin aether , and I could see the sinister exultation on his floating , luminous , too youthful memory face .
as before , the sides of the road shewed a bruising indicative of the blasphemously stupendous bulk of the horror ; whilst the conformation of the tracks seemed to argue a passage in two directions , as if the moving mountain had come from Cold Spring Glen and returned to it along the same path .
this event excited the more interest , since it was the current report , that if the popular candidate Ryland should be chosen , the question of the abolition of hereditary rank , and other feudal relics , would come under the consideration of parliament .
Legrand appeared exhausted with excitement , and spoke very few words .
this data , received with suspense and astonishment by the assembled members , proved doubly exciting to Inspector Legrasse ; and he began at once to ply his informant with questions .
some feeble and ill directed efforts resulted in complete failure on their part , and , of course , in total triumph on mine .
who shall presume to imitate the colors of the tulip , or to improve the proportions of the lily of the valley ?
I comforted her as well as I might .
and I think you &apos;ll understand before I &apos;m through why I don &apos;t tell the police .
instead , I strolled out on the square , from which the bus had already gone , and studied the scene minutely and appraisingly .
he watched beside her for twelve hours and then she died .
run by an Innsmouth fellow Joe Sargent but never gets any custom from here , or Arkham either , I guess .
is this to prognosticate peace , or to mock at my unhappiness ? &quot;
I have seen truth , and I intend to shew it to you .
London did not contain above a thousand inhabitants ; and this number was continually diminishing .
is it not passing strange that , with their eternal prattling about roads to Truth , these bigoted people missed what we now so clearly perceive to be the great highway that of consistency ?
something was lacking .
then the shadows began to gather ; first little furtive ones under the table , and then bolder ones in the dark panelled corners .
it is also certain that he is at present ensconced in the hide of a beast , and is doing his best to play the part of a cameleopard ; but this is done for the better sustaining his dignity as king .
but my father was beside me to console me and to drive away bitter memories by bright hopes : methought that it was sweet to grieve that he might dry my tears .
&quot; you will see at once that all argument upon this head should be urged , if at all , against the rule itself ; and for this end we must examine the rationale of the rule .
I have good dispositions ; my life has been hitherto harmless and in some degree beneficial ; but a fatal prejudice clouds their eyes , and where they ought to see a feeling and kind friend , they behold only a detestable monster . &apos; &quot; &apos; that is indeed unfortunate ; but if you are really blameless , cannot you undeceive them ? &apos; &quot; &apos; I am about to undertake that task ; and it is on that account that I feel so many overwhelming terrors .
his countenance and manner betrayed irresolution and anxiety ; but the anxiety arose from a fear that we should not prosecute , or not succeed in our idea ; and his irresolution , from a doubt whether we should risk a defeat .
the youth was of a type , at once slightly affected and slightly ill mannered , which I could never like ; but I was willing enough now to admit both his genius and his honesty .
they are fashioned of hard burned little bricks , red , with black ends , so that the walls look like a chess board upon a great scale .
I live in a lone cottage on a solitary , wide heath : no voice of life reaches me .
could I have broken the fastenings above the elbow , I would have seized and attempted to arrest the pendulum .
the singing again commenced , and rang through the high roofed rooms , while we silently ascended the stair case .
his fine and lovely eyes were now lighted up with indignation , now subdued to downcast sorrow and quenched in infinite wretchedness .
he laughed and threw the bottle upwards with a gesticulation I did not understand .
the worst of this occupation is , that too many people take a fancy to it , and the competition is in consequence excessive .
Gad split me I &apos;d rather be red whilst I &apos;m here , Than white as a lily and dead half a year So Betty , my miss , Come give me a kiss ; In hell there &apos;s no innkeeper &apos;s daughter like this Young Harry , propp &apos;d up just as straight as he &apos;s able , Will soon lose his wig and slip under the table ; But fill up your goblets and pass &apos; em around better under the table than under the ground So revel and chaff As ye thirstily quaff : under six feet of dirt &apos; tis less easy to laugh The fiend strike me blue I &apos;m scarce able to walk , And damn me if I can stand upright or talk Here , landlord , bid Betty to summon a chair ; I &apos;ll try home for a while , for my wife is not there So lend me a hand ; I &apos;m not able to stand , But I &apos;m gay whilst I linger on top of the land About this time I conceived my present fear of fire and thunderstorms .
yet I seek not a fellow feeling in my misery .
he existed from this moment for himself only .
young couples , who had loved long and hopelessly , suddenly found every impediment removed , and wealth pour in from the death of relatives .
now , at Sparta were a thousand temples and shrines to a thousand different divinities .
I thought of poor Klenze , and wondered where his body rested with the image he had carried back into the sea .
do you know that it is not more than a thousand years ago since the metaphysicians consented to relieve the people of the singular fancy that there existed but two possible roads for the attainment of Truth believe it if you can It appears that long , long ago , in the night of Time , there lived a Turkish philosopher or Hindoo possibly called Aries Tottle .
she dwelt in a cottage whose trim grass plat sloped down to the waters of the lake of Ulswater ; a beech wood stretched up the hill behind , and a purling brook gently falling from the acclivity ran through poplar shaded banks into the lake .
my destruction might indeed arrive a few months sooner , but if my torturer should suspect that I postponed it , influenced by his menaces , he would surely find other and perhaps more dreadful means of revenge .
it was with great hesitation that she persuaded herself to undertake my instruction ; yet believing this accomplishment a necessary part of my education , and balancing the evils of this measure or of having some one in the house to instruct me she submitted to the inconvenience .
the trump is turned it is it is the king No it was the queen .
vainly did I struggle with my drowsiness , seeking to connect these strange words with some lore of the skies which I had learnt from the Pnakotic manuscripts .
several months passed in this manner .
as the rays of the lanterns fell within the pit , there flashed upwards a glow and a glare , from a confused heap of gold and of jewels , that absolutely dazzled our eyes .
the brave fellows whom I have persuaded to be my companions look towards me for aid , but I have none to bestow .
a valet , of stealthy step , thence conducted me , in silence , through many dark and intricate passages in my progress to the studio of his master .
in past times , without thought or foresight she had made him happy , being so herself , and in any question of choice , consulted her own wishes , as being one with his .
no ; from that moment I declared everlasting war against the species , and more than all , against him who had formed me and sent me forth to this insupportable misery .
within his banquet hall reclined Nargis Hei , the king , drunken with ancient wine from the vaults of conquered Pnath , and surrounded by feasting nobles and hurrying slaves .
I now behold the glad sun of May .
some years ago he loved a young Russian lady of moderate fortune , and having amassed a considerable sum in prize money , the father of the girl consented to the match .
he forced his friendship where old friends dared not force theirs , and marvelled at the fright that sat upon this gaunt , haggard watcher and listener .
my father had been killed at the age of thirty two , a month before I was born , by the fall of a stone somehow dislodged from one of the deserted parapets of the castle ; and my mother having died at my birth , my care and education devolved solely upon one remaining servitor , an old and trusted man of considerable intelligence , whose name I remember as Pierre .
let me endeavor , my Oinos , to lead you , step by step , to the conception I intend .
we never set out upon this expedition without a steady side wind for going and coming one that we felt sure would not fail us before our return and we seldom made a mis calculation upon this point .
under certain conditions this result would be brought about within an hour ; under others , it might not take place at all .
he talked of my Mother as if she had lived but a few weeks before ; not that he expressed poignant grief , but his discription of her person , and his relation of all anecdotes connected with her was thus fervent and vivid .
it was that of a young man in years , and no doubt belonged to a supposed son of that pious father , but in essence it was the kin of the unclean things .
at midnight he unearths the coffin , opens it , and is in the act of detaching the hair , when he is arrested by the unclosing of the beloved eyes .
what gloom their shadows cast upon the ground It is well the swinging lamps in those endless colonnades are kept burning throughout the day ; we should otherwise have the darkness of Egypt in the time of her desolation .
heading the other way , I found the back door also open ; and darted out and down five stone steps to the grass grown cobblestones of the courtyard .
the larger vessel disappears , and he is left alone in the canoe , which lies apparently motionless in the middle of the lake .
with a heavy heart I accompanied my friend .
faith and devotion have hitherto been the essence of our intercourse ; these lost , let us not cling to the seedless husk of life , the unkernelled shell .
poor fellow as I thought of his wife , I wondered that he could have heart to put on even the semblance of mirth .
we met at a late hour of the night ; for our debaucheries were to be faithfully protracted until morning .
nothing is so precious to a woman &apos;s heart as the glory and excellence of him she loves ; thus in every horror Evadne revelled in his fame and prosperity .
&apos;A mixture of pure art in a garden scene , adds to it a great beauty.&apos;
he saw his mistress once before the destined ceremony ; but she was bathed in tears , and throwing herself at his feet , entreated him to spare her , confessing at the same time that she loved another , but that he was poor , and that her father would never consent to the union .
up and down The Street walked grave men in conical hats , who most of the time carried muskets or fowling pieces .
my notions upon this head might not have been so clear as they are , but for a fortunate accident which happened to me when I was a very little boy .
what are your meditations ?
I mean the most liberal public or recognized conception of the idea involved in the phrase &quot; poetic sentiment . &quot;
his room is filled with books of the tamest and most puerile kind , and hour after hour he tries to lose himself in their feeble pages .
I checked , therefore , my impatient thirst for sympathy and was silent when I would have given the world to have confided the fatal secret .
beautiful Great God His yellow skin scarcely covered the work of muscles and arteries beneath ; his hair was of a lustrous black , and flowing ; his teeth of a pearly whiteness ; but these luxuriances only formed a more horrid contrast with his watery eyes , that seemed almost of the same colour as the dun white sockets in which they were set , his shrivelled complexion and straight black lips .
several non native residents had reported monstrous glimpses from time to time , but between old Zadok &apos;s tales and the malformed denizens it was no wonder such illusions were current .
they instantly carried it to the cottage of an old woman near the spot and endeavoured , but in vain , to restore it to life .
I could not forget the youthful , beautiful head with its leafy crown , though I am not by nature an artist .
but this memory of past discontent only served to enhance her present joy .
I have often desired to die ; but I am a very coward .
there were diamonds some of them exceedingly large and fine a hundred and ten in all , and not one of them small ; eighteen rubies of remarkable brilliancy ; three hundred and ten emeralds , all very beautiful ; and twenty one sapphires , with an opal .
I do not know that I can describe his emotions : sometimes he only betrayed them by a word or gesture , and then retired to his chamber and I crept as near it as I dared and listened with fear to every sound , yet still more dreading a sudden silence dreading I knew not what , but ever full of fear .
I tried morphine ; but the drug has given only transient surcease , and has drawn me into its clutches as a hopeless slave .
at this period , the termination of an animal &apos;s love for its offspring , the true affection of the human parent commences .
I was with him on that odious occasion , and saw him inject into the still veins the elixir which he thought would to some extent restore life &apos;s chemical and physical processes .
I approached this tremendous being ; I dared not again raise my eyes to his face , there was something so scaring and unearthly in his ugliness .
Raymond asked me , if I would not continue with them .
hereupon , the negro , grumbling out an apology , went up to his master , opened his mouth with the knowing air of a horse jockey , and adjusted therein a somewhat singular looking machine , in a very dexterous manner , that I could not altogether comprehend .
this , I say , decided my fate , and made my fortune .
the Emma , he says , was delayed and thrown widely south of her course by the great storm of March st , and on March nd , in S. Latitude , W. Longitude , encountered the Alert , manned by a queer and evil looking crew of Kanakas and half castes .
it was grass , clearly but grass such as we seldom see out of England so short , so thick , so even , and so vivid in color .
he was not three years old , and his illness appeared only one of those attacks incident to infancy .
doubtless , he also , whose blood received a mingling tide from his proud mother he , the acknowledged focus of the kingdom &apos;s wealth and nobility , had been taught to repeat my father &apos;s name with disdain , and to scoff at my just claims to protection .
you have often asked me the cause of my solitary life ; my tears ; and above all of my impenetrable and unkind silence .
the person who played the part of Rosse , suddenly became aware of the dangerous ground he trod .
but again the frost came and made the paths of the sea secure .
on the other hand , I was not aware that , in any recorded ascension , a diminution was apparent in the absolute rate of ascent ; although such should have been the case , if on account of nothing else , on account of the escape of gas through balloons ill constructed , and varnished with no better material than the ordinary varnish .
and it was the &quot; Daddy Long Legs &quot; which spoke thus : &quot; the &apos; Lollipop , &apos; This gorgeous Magazine is already before the public for October .
all this was in the mind of Adrian ; but he thought of my children , and , instead of communicating to me these resources of despair , he called up the image of health and life to be found , where we knew not when we knew not ; but if never to be found , for ever and for ever to be sought .
what human heart is shut to kindness ?
nor had my flesh trembled without cause , for when I raised my eyes I saw that the waters had ebbed very low , shewing much of the vast reef whose rim I had seen before .
I had come to London to see Adrian .
such vaunts displayed their weakness , rather than their strength yet still they might do extreme mischief , which , ending in their destruction , would render them at last objects of compassion and remorse .
other objects found included the mingled fragments of many books and papers , together with a yellowish dust left from the total disintegration of still older books and papers .
to think that &quot; Old Benijy &quot; should still be alive &quot; Mister Randy Mister Randy whar be ye ?
he is very thin and grey and wrinkled , but there are those who declare he is not nearly so old as he looks .
so at last I stood again in that unwholesome churchyard where a pale winter moon cast hideous shadows , and leafless trees drooped sullenly to meet the withered , frosty grass and cracking slabs , and the ivied church pointed a jeering finger at the unfriendly sky , and the night wind howled maniacally from over frozen swamps and frigid seas .
I beg pardon ; I had forgotten that Shakespeare will not flourish for seventeen hundred and fifty years to come .
of furniture there was only a narrow iron bedstead , a dingy washstand , a small table , a large bookcase , an iron music rack , and three old fashioned chairs .
he could not help thinking that the angels were horses , cocks , and bulls ; that somebody in the sixth heaven had seventy thousand heads ; and that the earth was supported by a sky blue cow with an incalculable number of green horns .
I would here observe that very much of what is rejected as evidence by a court , is the best of evidence to the intellect .
the minister decamped ; leaving his own letter one of no importance upon the table . &quot;
I wonder how I shall look when the earth is cleared and there are no earth beings on it .
he has constructiveness large .
Von Kempelen had never been even tolerably well off during his residence at Bremen ; and often , it was well known , he had been put to extreme shifts in order to raise trifling sums .
he is not readily discouraged .
feeble gleams of encrimsoned light made their way through the trellissed panes , and served to render sufficiently distinct the more prominent objects around ; the eye , however , struggled in vain to reach the remoter angles of the chamber , or the recesses of the vaulted and fretted ceiling .
we aided the sick , and comforted the sorrowing ; turning from the multitudinous dead to the rare survivors , with an energy of desire that bore the resemblance of power , we bade them live .
the criticism which says , of sculpture or of portraiture , that &quot; Nature is to be exalted rather than imitated , &quot; is in error .
but if you can bestow happiness on another ; if you can give one other person only one hour of joy ought you not to live to do it ?
&apos;The path of my departure was free , &apos; and there was none to lament my annihilation .
always over Kingsport it hung , and always its mystery sounded in whispers through Kingsport &apos;s crooked alleys .
is it not truly remarkable that , before the magnificent light shed upon philosophy by Humanity , the world was accustomed to regard War and Pestilence as calamities ?
et hinc illæ iræ ? &quot; but what is the precise evidence of Madame Deluc ?
&quot; at this time a slight sleep relieved me from the pain of reflection , which was disturbed by the approach of a beautiful child , who came running into the recess I had chosen , with all the sportiveness of infancy .
I remember your asking Pickman yourself once , the year before you went away , wherever in thunder he got such ideas and visions .
I had been the author of unalterable evils , and I lived in daily fear lest the monster whom I had created should perpetrate some new wickedness .
&quot; there can be no doubt of that , &quot; I replied unwittingly , and not at first observing so much had I been absorbed in reflection the extraordinary manner in which the speaker had chimed in with my meditations .
the boy doesn &apos;t loiter at all but he is a very long time in getting back from his errand for no lady of the precise name of Mrs. Trotter is to be discovered .
I uncovered it , and a gentle breeze quickly fanned it into a flame .
we went out into the moonless and tortuous network of that incredibly ancient town ; went out as the lights in the curtained windows disappeared one by one , and the dog Star leered at the throng of cowled , cloaked figures that poured silently from every doorway and formed monstrous processions up this street and that , past the creaking signs and antediluvian gables , the thatched roofs and diamond paned windows ; threading precipitous lanes where decaying houses overlapped and crumbled together , gliding across open courts and churchyards where the bobbing lanthorns made eldritch drunken constellations .
&quot; an opera glass no what do you suppose I would be doing with an opera glass ? &quot;
their operation , whatever that operation should prove to be , must necessarily have reference to the eye of the spectator .
these , moreover , utterly trivial , and even ridiculous in themselves , assume , to my fancy , adventitious importance , as connected with a period and a locality when and where I recognise the first ambiguous monitions of the destiny which afterwards so fully overshadowed me .
I was therefore obliged , much to my regret , to shake my head in the negative intending thus to give the Angel to understand that I found it inconvenient , just at that moment , to comply with his very reasonable demand No sooner , however , had I ceased shaking my head than &quot; Go to der teuffel , ten &quot; roared the Angel of the Odd .
when we reflect how very rarely , from the nature of the case , we have it in our power to detect them , we must admit that they may frequently occur without our cognizance .
during this narration my friend Manton had become very silent , and I saw that my words had impressed him .
on the fifth day the cold became extreme , although the wind had hauled round a point more to the northward .
to indulge , for a moment , in any attempt at thought , is to be inevitably lost ; for reflection but urges us to forbear , and therefore it is , I say , that we cannot .
like Brutus , I paused for a reply with which , like a tornado , Mr. Windenough immediately overwhelmed me .
for some time I was lost in conjecture as to the cause of this , but yesterday an idea struck me , and if it is well founded , I conjure you to avow it .
silence succeeded to clamour ; about fifty men lay on the ground dying or dead .
&apos;And if I die , at least I die for thee for thee &apos; Here it is clear that you are apostrophizing the cause of your disaster , the chicken .
she made me relate many of the earlier passages of my life , and listened with breathless attention to every word of the narrative .
&quot; I believe you are in the right , &quot; said Raymond ; &quot; although I had thought at first to arrange the affair differently .
&quot; romance , &quot; provided my readers fully comprehended what I would here imply by the word &quot; romance &quot; and &quot; womanliness &quot; seem to me convertible terms : and , after all , what man truly loves in woman , is simply her womanhood .
I never saw any of the family of De Lacey more .
I wondered what it would look like what its form and substance would be , and how big it might have waxed through long ages of life sucking .
very pertinently it was demanded of Plato , why a picked chicken , which was clearly &quot; a biped without feathers , &quot; was not , according to his own definition , a man ?
if you ever perceive a man setting up as a merchant or a manufacturer , or going into the cotton or tobacco trade , or any of those eccentric pursuits ; or getting to be a drygoods dealer , or soap boiler , or something of that kind ; or pretending to be a lawyer , or a blacksmith , or a physician any thing out of the usual way you may set him down at once as a genius , and then , according to the rule of three , he &apos;s an ass .
that my wife dreaded the fierce moodiness of my temper that she shunned me and loved me but little I could not help perceiving ; but it gave me rather pleasure than otherwise .
him he visited , living with him and sharing his studies for seven years , till horror overtook them one midnight in an unknown and archaic graveyard , and only one emerged where two had entered .
the next day he threw such disguise over his person as a cloak afforded , and revisited Evadne .
the dread of years was lifted from my shoulders , for I knew that he whom I had felled was the source of all my danger from the curse ; and now that I was free , I burned with the desire to learn more of the sinister thing which had haunted my line for centuries , and made of my own youth one long continued nightmare .
a final disgrace , compared to which the others had been as nothing , shattered the illusions of those who had come to believe in Galpin &apos;s reform ; and the young man abandoned his name and disappeared from public view .
you know how damned life like Pickman &apos;s paintings were how we all wondered where he got those faces .
then indeed I succeeded in opening it , but when I did so seemed only to be confronted by a greater and more closely locked barrier .
but the cursory glance my father had taken of my volume by no means assured me that he was acquainted with its contents , and I continued to read with the greatest avidity .
acting upon this plan in our subsequent intercourse , he led me to wish to participate in that cultivation which graced his own intellect .
I lingered behind , for the black rift in the green litten snow was frightful , and I thought I had heard the reverberations of a disquieting wail as my companions vanished ; but my power to linger was slight .
&quot; well , then ; I have received personal information , from a very high quarter , that a certain document of the last importance , has been purloined from the royal apartments .
was this to be the prelude to their eternal separation ?
Armitage , now that he had actually come upon the horror and its monstrous work , trembled with the responsibility he felt to be his .
books and papers were very few , and in the prevailing gloom I could not readily discern the titles .
to this I was securely bound by a long Strap resembling a surcingle .
when the sailors saw this and that their return to their native country was apparently assured , a shout of tumultuous joy broke from them , loud and long continued .
now this mode of reasoning in the schoolboy , whom his fellows termed &apos; lucky , &apos; what , in its last analysis , is it ? &quot;
&quot; a thousand pounds ? &quot; inquired the artist , musingly .
indeed , the reviews I brought to pass by this simple expedient have never been approached , and were the wonder of the world .
yet had not all of sentience departed ; for the consciousness and the sentiment remaining supplied some of its functions by a lethargic intuition .
it was loaded with plate , and more than loaded with delicacies .
although quite as tall as the person just described , she had no right to complain of his unnatural emaciation .
I saw this , and I saw something amorphously squatted far away from the light , piping noisomely on a flute ; and as the thing piped I thought I heard noxious muffled flutterings in the foetid darkness where I could not see .
ah , Death , the spectre which sate at all feasts How often , Monos , did we lose ourselves in speculations upon its nature How mysteriously did it act as a check to human bliss saying unto it &quot; thus far , and no farther &quot; That earnest mutual love , my own Monos , which burned within our bosoms how vainly did we flatter ourselves , feeling happy in its first up springing , that our happiness would strengthen with its strength Alas as it grew , so grew in our hearts the dread of that evil hour which was hurrying to separate us forever Thus , in time , it became painful to love .
it lay on the second story , on the southeast corner of the house , and had an immense east window and narrow south window , both devoid of panes or shutters .
a small possession on the shores of Como belonged to her .
when the design was complete , he handed it to me without rising .
who then shall call thy conduct into question ?
the rat had been smelled and by Diana .
a thousand spots with which I was enraptured he rejected without hesitation , for reasons which satisfied me , in the end , that he was right .
&quot; above all other admonition on my part , &quot; he said , &quot; cherish and follow this one : do not despair .
I knew that others could not understand either , so let them think Arthur Munroe had wandered away .
in the nineteenth century Antioch is that is to say , Antioch will be in a lamentable state of decay .
all this was said and repeated , and many looked forward in dread to the fourth day of July , about which the strange writings hinted much ; yet could nothing be found to place the guilt .
apprehensive as I was , I was nevertheless unprepared for the words which came up from that uncanny vault in accents more alarmed and quivering than any I had heard before from Harley Warren .
and if such a column of them was scouring the Ipswich road , would the patrols on the other roads be likewise augmented ?
clearly , some cryptic , evil movement was afoot on a large scale just what , I could not say .
great God Why did I not then expire Why am I here to relate the destruction of the best hope and the purest creature on earth ?
they lived well , I can tell you . &quot;
but after three nights I heard the baying again , and before a week was over felt strange eyes upon me whenever it was dark .
but first witness , I beseech you , the result of this night &apos;s contest , and the triumph I am about to achieve , if I may so call it , while I fear that victory is to me defeat .
my companion must be of the same species and have the same defects .
in chemistry also the axiom fails .
the witch old Keziah Nahab that must have meant her death .
Rathbone was a practical man , and rented the Benefit Street house despite William &apos;s wish to keep it vacant .
the notes , freighted with man &apos;s dearest prayers , re echoed through the dim aisles , and the bleeding of the soul &apos;s wounds was staunched by heavenly balm .
it is not my policy to attract attention either to myself or to the beast .
even little Atal , the innkeeper &apos;s son , was closely questioned and given a sweetmeat as reward .
the first words that they uttered confirmed what I before knew .
when we visited it the next morning , we found the tree shattered in a singular manner .
the altered state of society made these accidents of nature , sources of real misery .
the distance was slight , however , so I clambered over the brink and dropped ; striking a dusty floor littered with crumbling boxes and barrels .
I gasped could not ask that which I longed to know the friendly spirit replied more gravely I have told you that you will not see those whom you mourn But I must away follow me or I must leave you weeping deserted by the spirit that now checks your tears Go I replied I cannot follow I can only sit here grieve long to see those who are gone for ever for to nought but what has relation to them can I listen The spirit left me to groan weep to wish the sun quenched in eternal darkness to accuse the air the waters all all the universe of my utter irremediable misery Fantasia came again and ever when she came tempted me to follow her but as to follow her was to leave for a while the thought of those loved ones whose memories were my all although they were my torment I dared not go Stay with me I cried help me to clothe my bitter thoughts in lovelier colours give me hope although fallacious images of what has been although it never will be again diversion I cannot take cruel fairy do you leave me alas all my joy fades at thy departure but I may not follow thee One day after one of these combats when the spirit had left me I wandered on along the banks of the river to try to disperse the excessive misery that I felt untill overcome by fatigue my eyes weighed down by tears I lay down under the shade of trees fell asleep I slept long and when I awoke I knew not where I was I did not see the river or the distant city but I lay beside a lovely fountain shadowed over by willows surrounded by blooming myrtles at a short distance the air seemed pierced by the spiry pines cypresses and the ground was covered by short moss sweet smelling heath the sky was blue but not dazzling like that of Rome and on every side I saw long allies clusters of trees with intervening lawns gently stealing rivers Where am I ? I exclaimed looking around me I beheld Fantasia She smiled as she smiled all the enchanting scene appeared lovelier rainbows played in the fountain the heath flowers at our feet appeared as if just refreshed by dew I have seized you , said she as you slept and will for some little time retain you as my prisoner I will introduce you to some of the inhabitants of these peaceful gardens It shall not be to any whose exuberant happiness will form an unpleasing contrast with your heavy grief but it shall be to those whose chief care here is to acquired knowledged sic virtue or to those who having just escaped from care pain have not yet recovered full sense of enjoyment This part of these Elysian gardens is devoted to those who as before in your world wished to become wise virtuous by study action here endeavour after the same ends by contemplation They are still unknowing of their final destination but they have a clear knowledge of what on earth is only supposed by some which is that their happiness now hereafter depends upon their intellectual improvement Nor do they only study the forms of this universe but search deeply in their own minds and love to meet converse on all those high subjects of which the philosophers of Athens loved to treat With deep feelings but with no outward circumstances to excite their passions you will perhaps imagine that their life is uniform dull but these sages are of that disposition fitted to find wisdom in every thing in every lovely colour or form ideas that excite their love besides many years are consumed before they arrive here When a soul longing for knowledge pining at its narrow conceptions escapes from your earth many spirits wait to receive it and to open its eyes to the mysteries of the universe many centuries are often consumed in these travels and they at last retire here to digest their knowledge to become still wiser by thought and imagination working upon memory When the fitting period is accomplished they leave this garden to inhabit another world fitted for the reception of beings almost infinitely wise but what this world is neither can you conceive or I teach you some of the spirits whom you will see here are yet unknowing in the secrets of nature They are those whom care sorrow have consumed on earth whose hearts although active in virtue have been shut through suffering from knowledge These spend sometime here to recover their equanimity to get a thirst of knowledge from converse with their wiser companions They now securely hope to see again those whom they love know that it is ignorance alone that detains them from them .
with his usual Thoughtfulness , he had provided for her independence in this situation .
it likewise seemed that all the known things entered into the composition of other unknown things , and vice versa .
other nations have a fellowship in death ; but we , shut out from all neighbourhood , must bury our own dead , and little England become a wide , wide tomb .
I did not , like him , attempt a critical knowledge of their dialects , for I did not contemplate making any other use of them than temporary amusement .
CHAPTER The voyage came to an end .
accordingly he attacked the manuscript with the preliminary assumption that the bulk of it was in English .
for long hours , detaining my hand , would she pour out before me the overflowing of a heart whose more than passionate devotion amounted to idolatry .
she yielded a reluctant consent to my prayers .
for it had come from the large covered vat in that ghoulish corner of crawling black shadows .
mankind grew paler as it came .
I entreat you to believe in my most sincere professions and to treat me as an old and tried friend : promise me never to forget me , never causelessly to banish me ; but try to love me as one who would devote all his energies to make you happy .
I will just help myself to some of the ham . &quot;
so great was the extent of the new land which had risen beneath me , that I could not detect the faintest noise of the surging ocean , strain my ears as I might .
some hours passed thus , while they , by their countenances , expressed joy , the cause of which I did not comprehend .
there is nothing peculiarly outré about it .
these latter were very remarkable , and resembled in some respects the writhing creese of the Malay .
during the ensuing weeks Dr. Armitage set about to collect all possible data on Wilbur Whateley and the formless presences around Dunwich .
being nearly seventy three , full nineteen Years older than Dr. Johnson I say Doctor , tho &apos; his Degree came not till two Years afterward , I naturally expected him to have some regard for my Age ; and was therefore not in that fear of him , which others confess &apos;d .
an occurrence so common attracted no particular attention , but his return was looked for with intense anxiety on the part of his domestics , when , after some hours &apos; absence , the stupendous and magnificent battlements of the chateau Metzengerstein , were discovered crackling and rocking to their very foundation , under the influence of a dense and livid mass of ungovernable fire .
as for its being upon the person of the minister , we may consider that as out of the question . &quot;
he was almost whispering now , with a huskiness more terrible than a scream , and I trembled as I listened .
all at once I began dreading to look at them as they passed .
the conclusion was irresistible .
yet I knew that he was urging forward his marriage with the presumptive heiress of the Earldom of Windsor , with keen expectation of the advantages that would thence accrue to him .
in other words , I believed , and still do believe , that truth , is frequently of its own essence , superficial , and that , in many cases , the depth lies more in the abysses where we seek her , than in the actual situations wherein she may be found .
there had been a second change in the cell and now the change was obviously in the form .
this , briefly , is his story .
finally I reached the rotting oblong box and removed the damp nitrous cover .
&quot; Durn ye , boy , so thar ye be ain &apos;t ye got a tongue in yer head , that ye can &apos;t answer a body ?
it was , perhaps , the narrow limits to which he thus confined himself upon the guitar , which gave birth , in great measure , to the fantastic character of his performances .
why , in that instant , did I not extinguish the spark of existence which you had so wantonly bestowed ?
&quot; I have seen , &quot; he said , &quot; the most beautiful scenes of my own country ; I have visited the lakes of Lucerne and Uri , where the snowy mountains descend almost perpendicularly to the water , casting black and impenetrable shades , which would cause a gloomy and mournful appearance were it not for the most verdant islands that believe the eye by their gay appearance ; I have seen this lake agitated by a tempest , when the wind tore up whirlwinds of water and gave you an idea of what the water spout must be on the great ocean ; and the waves dash with fury the base of the mountain , where the priest and his mistress were overwhelmed by an avalanche and where their dying voices are still said to be heard amid the pauses of the nightly wind ; I have seen the mountains of La Valais , and the pays de Vaud ; but this country , Victor , pleases me more than all those wonders .
there was an instant return of the hectic circles on the cheeks ; the tongue quivered , or rather rolled violently in the mouth although the jaws and lips remained rigid as before ; and at length the same hideous voice which I have already described , broke forth : &quot; for God &apos;s sake quick quick put me to sleep or , quick waken me quick I say to you that I am dead &quot; I was thoroughly unnerved , and for an instant remained undecided what to do .
the little vale into which I thus peered down from under the fog canopy could not have been more than four hundred yards long ; while in breadth it varied from fifty to one hundred and fifty or perhaps two hundred .
there is , I reflected tritely , an infinite deal of pathos in the state of an eminent person who has come down in the world .
in the larger manufacturing towns the same tragedy was acted on a smaller , yet more disastrous scale .
beyond or behind this there is no intelligible principle ; and we might , indeed , deem this perverseness a direct instigation of the Arch Fiend , were it not occasionally known to operate in furtherance of good .
&quot; I could pass my life here , &quot; said he to me ; &quot; and among these mountains I should scarcely regret Switzerland and the Rhine . &quot;
here Tillinghast seated himself directly opposite me , blowing out his candle and staring hideously into my eyes .
our appearance and age seemed to excite in most cases a ridicule which I keenly resented , but which my friend considered a lesser evil than solitude .
the speaker appeared to be expostulating .
no person need apply , therefore , who is not prepared to leave this sum in the possession of the advertisers , and who cannot furnish the most satisfactory testimonials of morality .
and now he saw that there was a fresh rat hole in the wall near his couch .
oh My beloved sister , the sickening failing of your heart felt expectations is , in prospect , more terrible to me than my own death .
Adrian , who felt all the fresh spirit infused by returning health , clasped his hands in delight , and exclaimed with transport : &quot; o happy earth , and happy inhabitants of earth A stately palace has God built for you , O man and worthy are you of your dwelling Behold the verdant carpet spread at our feet , and the azure canopy above ; the fields of earth which generate and nurture all things , and the track of heaven , which contains and clasps all things .
sculpture , although in its nature rigorously poetical was too limited in its extent and consequences , to have occupied , at any time , much of his attention .
&quot; Amontillado &quot; &quot; I have my doubts . &quot;
&quot; I offered to pay her well for her trouble , and , after some demur , she consented to accompany me to the spot .
partly it was the police he feared ; but sometimes his nervousness was deeper and more nebulous , touching on certain indescribable things into which he had injected a morbid life , and from which he had not seen that life depart .
minutely and sagaciously directing the various modes of investment , he bequeathed the aggregate amount to the nearest of blood , bearing the name of Ellison , who should be alive at the end of the hundred years .
it &apos;s a rugged , uneven thing , a good bit over a mile out , and toward the end of shipping days sailors used to make big detours just to avoid it .
he then sought extreme freshness in his specimens , injecting his solutions into the blood immediately after the extinction of life .
but before many questions were asked , it became manifest that something far deeper and older than negro fetichism was involved .
with lightning speed he conceived the contents of the letter ; all was now cast on one die ; falsehood and artifice were trifles in comparison with the impending ruin .
in speaking of his intelligence , my wife , who at heart was not a little tinctured with superstition , made frequent allusion to the ancient popular notion , which regarded all black cats as witches in disguise .
&quot; he could not bear to come home , &quot; she said , &quot; only to see our children die .
above the slant roofs ahead and to the right there loomed the tall cupola of the Gilman House , but it was completely dark .
thus it remained till that final hellish night ; part of the walls of the secret laboratory .
do you think I sow my seed in the barren air , have no end in what I do ?
I compared her placid epistles with the burning ones of Adrian .
in one of its panels a very singular figure riveted my whole attention .
we returned to our college on a Sunday afternoon : the peasants were dancing , and every one we met appeared gay and happy .
by degrees I became reconciled to solitude but no one supplied her place in my affections .
everybody trades mostly here or in Arkham or Ipswich .
his dependants , even his equals , if in his present post he had any , were startled to find anger , derision , and bitterness in one , before distinguished for suavity and benevolence of manner .
no ? then I must positively leave you .
only a few moments were consumed in surveying the ruins just around the bend .
the blinding maelstrom of greenish yellow vapour which surged tempestuously up from that hole as the floods of acid descended , will never leave my memory .
I recognised the air it was a wild Hungarian dance popular in the theatres , and I reflected for a moment that this was the first time I had ever heard Zann play the work of another composer .
but to a Genevan magistrate , whose mind was occupied by far other ideas than those of devotion and heroism , this elevation of mind had much the appearance of madness .
I knew , too , that his apartment was narrow and ill ventilated .
I was surrounded by my female relations , but they were all of them nearly strangers to me : I did not listen to their consolations ; and so little did they work their designed effect that they seemed to me to be spoken in an unknown tongue .
Clara was always with her , and she seemed most at ease , when , in an obscure corner , she could sit holding her child &apos;s hand , silent and lonely .
in his latest affliction the fellow seemed to have forgotten his child , who was still missing as the night advanced .
to be sure the words themselves had little or no meaning .
the exigency here described is by no means of rare occurrence in printing offices ; and I cannot tell how to account for it , but the fact is indisputable , that when the exigency does occur , it almost always happens that x is adopted as a substitute for the letter deficient .
toward the last the house was condemned as an habitation by the building inspector .
&quot; at last you are come &quot; were the words given forth but this exertion was the last effort of the dying the joints relaxed , the figure fell prostrate , one low moan , the last , marked the moment of death .
it is impossible to conjecture the strange enchainment of events which restored the lifeless form of my friend to our hands .
one inscription that he left was in these words : &quot; prepare Your toils only begin ; wrap yourself in furs and provide food , for we shall soon enter upon a journey where your sufferings will satisfy my everlasting hatred . &quot;
the limited nature of my education in general , and more especially my ignorance on subjects connected with natural philosophy , so far from rendering me diffident of my own ability to comprehend what I had read , or inducing me to mistrust the many vague notions which had arisen in consequence , merely served as a farther stimulus to imagination ; and I was vain enough , or perhaps reasonable enough , to doubt whether those crude ideas which , arising in ill regulated minds , have all the appearance , may not often in effect possess all the force , the reality , and other inherent properties , of instinct or intuition ; whether , to proceed a step farther , profundity itself might not , in matters of a purely speculative nature , be detected as a legitimate source of falsity and error .
the following characters were rudely traced , in a red tint , between the death &apos;s head and the goat : &quot; ; ; ; ; ; : ; ; ? ; ; ; : ; ; ; ; ; ; : ; ; ; ; ; ? ; ; ; : ; ? ; &quot; &quot; But , &quot; said I , returning him the slip , &quot; I am as much in the dark as ever .
he raised her and smiled with such kindness and affection that I felt sensations of a peculiar and overpowering nature ; they were a mixture of pain and pleasure , such as I had never before experienced , either from hunger or cold , warmth or food ; and I withdrew from the window , unable to bear these emotions .
security gave dignity to her passion ; the certainty of a full return , left her with no wish unfulfilled .
I but too well understand the fascination you both labour under ; since I had the same struggle with your father , to make him cast off the parent of this youth , who hid his evil propensities with the smoothness and subtlety of a viper .
&quot; boar ? &quot; said I inquiringly &quot; pig , eh ? aper ? as we say in Latin who ? where ? &quot; &quot; your father , &quot; said he . &quot; precisely , &quot; I replied , &quot; pig . &quot;
and the symbol was like to one that learned men have discerned in those frightful parts of the Pnakotic Manuscripts which are too ancient to be read .
no doubt what he finally maintained was merely a centre of gravity common to all the revolving orbs but here again analogy must have been let fall .
the government , alarmed at such signs of wholesale regional decadence , sent several officers and medical experts to investigate ; conducting a survey which New England newspaper readers may still recall .
a very good diddle is this .
the moon was shining on the scattered brick fragments and marred facade , and the latch of the great door yielded readily to a touch from the outside .
besides all this , he had the impudence to pen what he meant for a lampoon upon himself , Mr. Crab , and the temerity to style him &quot; an ass . &quot;
my own spirits were high , and I bounded along with feelings of unbridled joy and hilarity .
the northern precipice , in like manner , was almost entirely clothed by grape vines of rare luxuriance ; some springing from the soil at the base of the cliff , and others from ledges on its face .
its vast , awesome , and incalculable age was unmistakable ; yet not one link did it shew with any known type of art belonging to civilisation &apos;s youth or indeed to any other time .
this Italian professed a total ignorance of the game of chess , although all others of the suite played well .
when it came from beyond the slanting north wall it was mixed with a sort of dry rattling and when it came from the century closed loft above the slanting ceiling Gilman always braced himself as if expecting some horror which only bided its time before descending to engulf him utterly .
they had organised the quest with care , keeping in touch by means of volunteer telephone stations , and when someone in the college district had reported hearing a scratching at a shuttered window , the net was quickly spread .
I will even own that an intolerable weight of anxiety was for a brief instant lifted from my bosom by the sudden and extraordinary interruption which ensued .
at the west end of the parlor , were a fireplace , and a door leading into the west wing probably a kitchen .
success , Gilman added , might lead to dangerous and unthinkable situations ; for who could foretell the conditions pervading an adjacent but normally inaccessible dimension ?
the sense of being had at length utterly departed , and there reigned in its stead instead of all things dominant and perpetual the autocrats Place and Time .
what she is not , I can easily perceive what she is I fear it is impossible to say .
the wild Pantheism of Fichte ; the modified Paliggenedia of the Pythagoreans ; and , above all , the doctrines of identity as urged by Schelling , were generally the points of discussion presenting the most of beauty to the imaginative Morella .
presently a breeze dissipated the cloud , and I descended upon the glacier .
it was then that I became distinctly aware of a gentle footfall upon the carpet , and near the couch ; and in a second thereafter , as Rowena was in the act of raising the wine to her lips , I saw , or may have dreamed that I saw , fall within the goblet , as if from some invisible spring in the atmosphere of the room , three or four large drops of a brilliant and ruby colored fluid .
as it happened , I burned all these papers undelivered and unopened .
but damn it all , it wasn &apos;t even the fiendish subject that made it such an immortal fountain head of all panic not that , nor the dog face with its pointed ears , bloodshot eyes , flat nose , and drooling lips .
there was a sense of justice in my father &apos;s upright mind which rendered it necessary that he should approve highly to love strongly .
when first I saw that I must go , I prepared my diving suit , helmet , and air regenerator for instant donning ; and immediately commenced to write this hurried chronicle in the hope that it may some day reach the world .
the better to fit me for this task , we must now separate .
this idea plunged me into a reverie so despairing and frightful that even now , when the scene is on the point of closing before me forever , I shudder to reflect on it .
his speech was somewhat remarkable both because of its difference from the ordinary accents of the region , and because it displayed a freedom from infantile lisping of which many children of three or four might well be proud .
surely I had no look of excessive prosperity .
and although , in all the many reports of the evidence , the relative expressions in question are distinctly and invariably employed just as I have employed them in this conversation with yourself , no notice whatever of the gross discrepancy has , as yet , been taken by any of the public journals , or by any of the myrmidons of police .
I had ventured upon deck and thrown myself down , without attracting any notice , among a pile of ratlin stuff and old sails in the bottom of the yawl .
he had got to shore , and had walked a few paces towards the town , and then , vanquished by malady and approaching death , had fallen on the inhospitable beach .
the inside of the cottage was dark , and I heard no motion ; I cannot describe the agony of this suspense .
it was my intention , now , to put my scheme in operation , and I resolved to make him feel the whole extent of the malice with which I was imbued .
in some degree also he was fitted to reconcile all parties .
here was done the very secret and ancient rite in detestation of Bokrug , the water lizard , and here rested the altar of chrysolite which bore the DOOM scrawl of Taran Ish .
the Parisian police have done this thing often before . &quot;
he had been trying to fancy them causeless , but could not .
as it was , I merely remarked that they spoke English , and I therefore addressed them in that language .
not a word I beseech you been here some time myself terrible accident heard of it , I suppose ?
on board balloon &quot; SKYLARK &quot; April , , now , my dear friend now , for your sins , you are to suffer the infliction of a long gossiping letter .
the pretence of eating , always curiously like a formality with him , he virtually abandoned ; and mental power alone appeared to keep him from total collapse .
when any one met a friend in the street , he only cried as he hurried on , &quot; You know &quot; while the other , with an ejaculation of fear and horror , would answer , &quot; What will become of us ? &quot;
my nerves became thoroughly unstrung , and I fell a prey to perpetual horror .
he displayed , also , with much pomposity , Brantome &apos;s &quot; Memoirs of Duels , &quot; published at Cologne , , in the types of Elzevir a precious and unique vellum paper volume , with a fine margin , and bound by Derome .
now and then the less organised ululation would cease , and from what seemed a well drilled chorus of hoarse voices would rise in sing song chant that hideous phrase or ritual : &quot; Ph &apos;nglui mglw &apos;nafh Cthulhu R &apos;lyeh wgah &apos;nagl fhtagn . &quot;
&quot; fifteen year &apos; gone , &quot; he rambled , &quot; I heerd Ol &apos; Whateley say as haow some day we &apos;d hear a child o &apos; Lavinny &apos;s a callin &apos; its father &apos;s name on the top o &apos; Sentinel Hill . . .
&quot; him syfe , massa , and spade . &quot;
that is the most dangerous gulph on which you perpetually totter ; but you must reassure your steps , and take hope to guide you .
let them remember what London had been when he arrived : the panic that prevailed brought famine , while every moral and legal tie was loosened .
all he seeks from life is not to think .
sit down , I say , or you will swamp the boat .
and the lynx which dwelleth forever in the tomb , came out therefrom , and lay down at the feet of the Demon , and looked at him steadily in the face .
an ether , absolutely dense , would put an infinitely more effectual stop to the progress of a star than would an ether of adamant or of iron .
and the outlines of his figure were indistinct but his features were the features of a deity ; for the mantle of the night , and of the mist , and of the moon , and of the dew , had left uncovered the features of his face .
it was then that I began to study the mirror with mounting alarm .
but these intervals of tranquility are only at the turn of the ebb and flood , and in calm weather , and last but a quarter of an hour , its violence gradually returning .
now for the first time I saw the full extent of my task , and I was overwhelmed by what I had brought on myself .
I am your brother of light , and have floated with you in the effulgent valleys .
no joy or sorrow dies barren of progeny , which for ever generated and generating , weaves the chain that make our life : un dia llama a otro dia y ass i llama , y encadena llanto a llanto , y pena a pena .
like Psyche I lived for awhile in an enchanted palace , amidst odours , and music , and every luxurious delight ; when suddenly I was left on a barren rock ; a wide ocean of despair rolled around me : above all was black , and my eyes closed while I still inhabited a universal death .
I would have delayed ; I wished to recommend watchfulness to Perdita , but his presence restrained me .
a boat picked me up exhausted from fatigue and now that the danger was removed speechless from the memory of its horror .
he observed the moon when two days and a half old , in the evening soon after sunset , before the dark part was visible , and continued to watch it until it became visible .
Luchesi &quot; &quot; I have no engagement ; come . &quot;
you have burdened your memory with exploded systems and useless names .
since my future happiness was at issue , I resolved to act with a manly decision .
the public generally supposed those marks to have consisted of some description of scars .
true nervous very , very dreadfully nervous I had been and am ; but why will you say that I am mad ?
the longer I looked , the more the thing fascinated me ; and in this fascination there was a curiously disturbing element hardly to be classified or accounted for .
but I I have lost everything and cannot begin life anew . &quot;
his dress was a tight fitting swallow tailed black coat from one of whose pockets dangled a vast length of white handkerchief , black kerseymere knee breeches , black stockings , and stumpy looking pumps , with huge bunches of black satin ribbon for bows .
let them call him so , let all England believe him to be thus we know him he is our enemy our penurious , dastardly , arrogant enemy ; if he were gifted with one particle of the virtues you call his , he would do justly by us , if it were only to shew , that if he must strike , it should not be a fallen foe .
the fates were again propitious for a brief period ; but again a trivial incident interfered .
a strange multiplicity of sensations seized me , and I saw , felt , heard , and smelt at the same time ; and it was , indeed , a long time before I learned to distinguish between the operations of my various senses .
CHAPTER XI It is a strange circumstance but it often occurs that blessings by their use turn to curses ; and that I who in solitude had desired sympathy as the only relief I could enjoy should now find it an additional torture to me .
I was too well used to these , however , to pay them any special attention .
as Gilman and Elwood retired , too sleepy to argue further , they heard Joe Mazurewicz reel into the house half drunk , and shuddered at the desperate wildness of his whining prayers .
he spoke : &quot; so you didn &apos;t let it alone I &apos;m sorry .
my vices are the children of a forced solitude that I abhor , and my virtues will necessarily arise when I live in communion with an equal .
West &apos;s landlady saw us arrive at his room about two in the morning , with a third man between us ; and told her husband that we had all evidently dined and wined rather well .
it was , he said , exactly like a smell he had found in the tool shed abandoned when the house was finally repaired ; and like the faint odours which he sometimes thought he caught near the stone circles on the mountains .
we can take the shuttle at the South station for Battery Street , and after that the walk isn &apos;t much . &quot;
there was no doubt about the matter the pardon should be obtained .
Gilman listened as he nodded , his preternaturally sharpened hearing seeming to strain for some subtle , dreaded murmur beyond the noises in the ancient house .
behold now the melancholy train cross the flats of Thrace , and wind through the defiles , and over the mountains of Macedonia , coast the clear waves of the Peneus , cross the Larissean plain , pass the straits of Thermopylae , and ascending in succession Oeta and Parnassus , descend to the fertile plain of Athens .
he then took a cursory view of the present state of the science and explained many of its elementary terms .
the result was , that he would make one more attempt to reclaim him , and in case of ill success , cast him off for ever .
&quot; you allude to Evadne Zaimi : but she is not in England . &quot;
I did not weep , but I knelt down and with a full heart thanked my guiding spirit for conducting me in safety to the place where I hoped , notwithstanding my adversary &apos;s gibe , to meet and grapple with him .
the young soldier &apos;s return was not a thing of unmitigated happiness .
all idea of resort for pleasure , of theatres and festivals had passed away .
but , in all the experiments made with models at the Adelaide Gallery , it was found that the operation of these fans not only did not propel the machine , but actually impeded its flight .
after a lapse of some months , spent at home in mere idleness , I found myself a student at Eton .
there &apos;s something those fellows catch beyond life that they &apos;re able to make us catch for a second .
what we call &quot; death , &quot; is but the painful metamorphosis .
yet it is mere folly to say that between the first and second disappearance of Marie , there is no supposable connection .
dream not to alter this .
&quot; with the public the arguments of L &apos;Etoile have had weight ; and that the journal itself is convinced of their importance would appear from the manner in which it commences one of its Essays upon the subject &apos; Several of the morning papers of the day , &apos; it says , &apos; speak of the conclusive article in Monday &apos;s Etoile.&apos;
natural philosophy is the genius that has regulated my fate ; I desire , therefore , in this narration , to state those facts which led to my predilection for that science .
don &apos;t understand at all .
below me in the ocean lay a cluster of black specks , which undoubtedly were islands .
I love , indeed , to regard the dark valleys , and the gray rocks , and the waters that silently smile , and the forests that sigh in uneasy slumbers , and the proud watchful mountains that look down upon all , I love to regard these as themselves but the colossal members of one vast animate and sentient whole a whole whose form that of the sphere is the most perfect and most inclusive of all ; whose path is among associate planets ; whose meek handmaiden is the moon , whose mediate sovereign is the sun ; whose life is eternity , whose thought is that of a God ; whose enjoyment is knowledge ; whose destinies are lost in immensity , whose cognizance of ourselves is akin with our own cognizance of the animalculae which infest the brain a being which we , in consequence , regard as purely inanimate and material much in the same manner as these animalculae must thus regard us .
this time he did not even glance through the peep hole , but swung the great oak bar and shot the bolt , unlatching the heavy door and flinging it wide to the stars and the mist .
when they were complete once more I missed no opportunity for their trial .
our army looked on her as certain prey .
Joe Mazurewicz the prayers against the crawling Chaos now turning to an inexplicably triumphant shriek worlds of sardonic actuality impinging on vortices of febrile dream Iä Shub Niggurath The goat with a Thousand Young . . . .
once in a while , though , he could not help seeing how shallow , fickle , and meaningless all human aspirations are , and how emptily our real impulses contrast with those pompous ideals we profess to hold .
let us imagine the power actually possessed of seeing animals upon the moon &apos;s surface what would first arrest the attention of an observer from the earth ?
&apos;Viele &apos; has evidently been misconceived as it often is , and what the translator renders by &apos; sorrows , &apos; is probably &apos; lieden , &apos; which , in its true version , &apos; sufferings , &apos; would give a totally different complexion to the whole account ; but , of course , much of this is merely guess , on my part .
I felt that I carried with me those I best loved ; I was pleased , after a long separation to rejoin Adrian ; never again to part .
as the memory of past misfortunes pressed upon me , I began to reflect on their cause the monster whom I had created , the miserable daemon whom I had sent abroad into the world for my destruction .
I endeavoured therefore to sooth and soften her mind ; and it was not until after many endeavours that I gave up the task as impracticable .
he appeared to be stifling with passion , and his face was cadaverously white .
upon his seeming decease , his friends were requested to sanction a post mortem examination , but declined to permit it .
it savoured of the wildest dreams of myth maker and theosophist , and disclosed an astonishing degree of cosmic imagination among such half castes and pariahs as might be least expected to possess it .
the sultry air impregnated with dust , the heat and smoke of burning palaces , palsied my limbs .
Theosophists have guessed at the awesome grandeur of the cosmic cycle wherein our world and human race form transient incidents .
she was lovely , gentle , and , above all , kind to him ; nor can it afford astonishment , that the late idol of high bred beauty should , even in a fallen state , appear a being of an elevated and wondrous nature to the lowly cottage girl .
the morrow having arrived , I was going from my hotel to the wharf , when Captain Hardy met me and said that , &quot; owing to circumstances &quot; a stupid but convenient phrase , &quot; he rather thought the &apos; Independence &apos; would not sail for a day or two , and that when all was ready , he would send up and let me know . &quot;
the tips of the wings touched the back edge of the block , the seat occupied the centre , whilst the long , curved claws of the doubled up , crouching hind legs gripped the front edge and extended a quarter of the way down toward the bottom of the pedestal .
they were very fond of the water , and swam a great deal in both river and harbour .
I gazed on the picture of my mother , which stood over the mantel piece .
it is hard to say just what he resembled , but his expression , his facial angle , and the length of his arms gave a thrill of repulsion to those who met him for the first time .
is a native of Amsterdam .
in the inorganic life , as well as in the inorganic matter generally , there is nothing to impede the action of one simple unique law the divine volition .
&quot; we must follow it and the way to begin is to go to the place that has just been wrecked .
&quot; I am glad you are come , &quot; he said to me , when we were at last alone ; &quot; I can only spare a few minutes , and must tell you much in that time .
the crone fumbled with the latch and pushed the door open , motioning to Gilman to wait and disappearing inside the black aperture .
and Clerval could aught ill entrench on the noble spirit of Clerval ?
I walked up and down my room hastily and perturbed , while my imagination conjured up a thousand images to torment and sting me .
queer how fish are always thick off Innsmouth Harbour when there ain &apos;t any anywhere else around but just try to fish there yourself and see how the folks chase you off Those people used to come here on the railroad walking and taking the train at Rowley after the branch was dropped but now they use that bus .
Adrian left me , as I afterwards learnt , upon his daily task of visiting the hospitals , and inspecting the crowded parts of London .
&quot; your Lordship might have spared that taunt ; I do not , dare not love her . &quot; &quot; at least , &quot; he continued haughtily , &quot; she does not love you .
he despises me , I thought ; but he shall learn that I despise him , and hold in equal contempt his punishments and his clemency .
yet it was with sweet tears ; now there was a depth of affliction in their gentle appeal that rent my heart with sympathy ; they seemed to desire peace for me ; for himself a heart patient to suffer ; a craving for sympathy , yet a perpetual self denial .
&quot; d n the fellow &quot; cried he ; &quot; why , M. Clerval , I assure you he has outstript us all .
there is no astronomical error more unaccountable than that which reconciles the known retardation of the comets with the idea of their passage through an ether : for , however rare this ether be supposed , it would put a stop to all sidereal revolution in a very far briefer period than has been admitted by those astronomers who have endeavored to slur over a point which they found it impossible to comprehend .
CHAPTER X. after these events , it was long before we were able to attain any degree of composure .
when beauty was the theme , I well knew with what facility he soared into the regions of the purely ideal .
anxious to stop the matter at its source , I hastened to the basement to tell the landlady ; and was assured by her that the trouble would quickly be set right .
now raise yourself up a little higher hold on to the grass if you feel giddy so and look out , beyond the belt of vapor beneath us , into the sea . &quot;
Friday morning Armitage , Rice , and Morgan set out by motor for Dunwich , arriving at the village about one in the afternoon .
whence sprung this difference ?
but this time he was not snatched away , and like a winged being settled gradually over a grassy hillside till finally his feet rested gently on the turf .
but in this idle village gossip the Terrible Old Man took no interest at all .
most of the houses in this region I had found rich in relics of the past , but here the antiquity was curiously complete ; for in all the room I could not discover a single article of definitely post revolutionary date .
but , as if possessed of magic powers , the monster had blinded me to his real intentions ; and when I thought that I had prepared only my own death , I hastened that of a far dearer victim .
I was dreadfully weary , but , scarcely understanding what had occasioned the change in my thoughts , I felt no longer any great aversion from the labor imposed .
the downpour waxed in heaviness , and distant peals of thunder sounded from far horizons .
Canals , aqueducts , bridges , stately buildings , and various edifices for public utility , were entered upon ; he was continually surrounded by projectors and projects , which were to render England one scene of fertility and magnificence ; the state of poverty was to be abolished ; men were to be transported from place to place almost with the same facility as the princes Houssain , Ali , and Ahmed , in the Arabian nights .
I saw no means by which it would be possible to trace the murderer .
though it pleased me , I would have relished it better if there had been footprints in the snow , and people in the streets , and a few windows without drawn curtains .
I had unchained an enemy among them whose joy it was to shed their blood and to revel in their groans .
yet , still , words like those I have recorded would burst uncontrollably from me .
the overflowing warmth of her heart , by making love a plant of deep root and stately growth , had attuned her whole soul to the reception of happiness , when she found in Raymond all that could adorn love and satisfy her imagination .
it was long before I could reason myself into sufficient courage to sit up and look out into the distance .
our practice was surprisingly large from the very first large enough to please most young doctors , and large enough to prove a bore and a burden to students whose real interest lay elsewhere .
e predominates so remarkably that an individual sentence of any length is rarely seen , in which it is not the prevailing character .
the windows were of bull &apos;s eye pattern , and the black oak beams bespoke unbelievable antiquity .
I writhed under his words , yet dared not exhibit the pain I felt .
excellent and gentle as he is even in the downfall of his reason , I do not worship him as you do , but I would give all my hopes of a crown and my right hand to boot , to see him restored to himself . &quot;
behold , my cheek is flushed with pleasure at the imagination of death ; all that we love are dead .
policemen ploughed a way through the crowd , questioning everyone closely both about the incident and about the dead figure on the floor .
dear William dearest blessed child I soon shall see you again in heaven , where we shall all be happy ; and that consoles me , going as I am to suffer ignominy and death . &quot;
&quot; Ebenezer was on a Salem merchantman for years , an &apos; picked up a sight o &apos; queer stuff in every port .
insane lightning over malignant ivied walls and daemon arcades choked with fungous vegetation . . . .
his address is frank , and his whole manner noticeable for bonhomie .
they talked of the events of the day ; the skirmish at noon ; the diminished numbers of the infidels ; their defeat and flight : they contemplated , after a short interval of time , the capture of the Golden City .
he seemed to sense a certain friendliness in me ; born no doubt of the interest I could not conceal , and the gentle manner in which I questioned him .
things like that brought down the beings those Whateleys were so fond of the beings they were going to let in tangibly to wipe out the human race and drag the earth off to some nameless place for some nameless purpose .
now , however , we were troubled by what seemed to be frequent fumblings in the night , not only around the doors but around the windows also , upper as well as lower .
I shall feel the affections of a sensitive being and become linked to the chain of existence and events from which I am now excluded . &quot;
you will find near this place , if you follow not too tardily , a dead hare ; eat and be refreshed .
very often he stumbled , for his eyes and ears were chained to an extremely lofty point in the blank blue sky .
I can , even now , remember the hour from which I dedicated myself to this great enterprise .
no no P. Are you pleased with the prospect ?
he was obstinate , but not firm ; benevolent in his first movements ; harsh and reckless when provoked .
do I not look forward to a miserable future ?
&quot; Wal , Sir , Matt he says the natives araound thar had all the fish they cud ketch , an &apos; sported bracelets an &apos; armlets an &apos; head rigs made aout of a queer kind o &apos; gold an &apos; covered with picters o &apos; monsters jest like the ones carved over the ruins on the little island sorter fish like frogs or frog like fishes that was drawed in all kinds o &apos; positions like they was human bein &apos;s .
but to what good end is pain thus rendered possible ?
Carter , it was the unnamable &quot; Dear Melmoth : . . .
I will watch with the wiliness of a snake , that I may sting with its venom .
&quot; and what , &quot; I here demanded , &quot; do you think of the opinions of Le Commerciel ? &quot; &quot; that , in spirit , they are far more worthy of attention than any which have been promulgated upon the subject .
Midwinter evenings seemed least dreadful to him .
she found it however no easy task to soften and reconcile Raymond .
if , on the other hand , any circumstances should cause undue levity , and consequent ascent , this levity is immediately counteracted by the additional weight of rope upraised from the earth .
I cannot fathom it , for the shadow on that chimney was not that of George Bennett or of any other human creature , but a blasphemous abnormality from hell &apos;s nethermost craters ; a nameless , shapeless abomination which no mind could fully grasp and no pen even partly describe .
I well remember that suggestions arising from this ballad , led us into a train of thought wherein there became manifest an opinion of Usher &apos;s which I mention not so much on account of its novelty , for other men have thought thus , as on account of the pertinacity with which he maintained it .
and then my vision fell upon the seven tall candles upon the table .
but I was wild with the excitement of an immoderate dose of opium , and heeded these things but little , nor spoke of them to Rowena .
CHAPTER &quot; It is with considerable difficulty that I remember the original era of my being ; all the events of that period appear confused and indistinct .
for some reason or other I chose to make my first inquiries at the chain grocery , whose personnel was not likely to be native to Innsmouth .
according to Adrian &apos;s account , I had expected to find her sad ; but , on the contrary , she appeared in the highest spirits : true , she had grown thin , her eyes were somewhat hollow , and her cheeks sunk , though tinged by a bright glow .
the odd pull toward that spot in the sky between Hydra and Argo had abated , but another of even greater strength had taken its place .
in front lay a small parterre , planted with box and other shrubs ; but through this sacred division we passed only upon rare occasions indeed such as a first advent to school or final departure thence , or perhaps , when a parent or friend having called for us , we joyfully took our way home for the Christmas or midsummer holy days .
&apos;The Persian iris appears to some persons to possess a sweet and very powerful perfume , while to others it is perfectly scentless.&apos;
the profusion was absolutely barbaric .
over miles of hill and field and alley they came , but he recognised them none the less .
but fancies such as these were not the sole possessors of my brain .
the breeze that played in my hair revived me , and I watched with quiet eyes the sunbeams that glittered on the waves , and the birds that coursed each other over the waters just brushing them with their plumes .
if I that is , if we propose him , he will assuredly be elected , and will find , in the functions of that high office , scope for the towering powers of his mind .
with a smile she agreed to leave her country , from which she had never before been absent , and the spot she had inhabited from infancy ; the forest and its mighty trees , the woodland paths and green recesses , where she had played in childhood , and had lived so happily through youth ; she would leave them without regret , for she hoped to purchase thus the lives of her children .
I felt emotions of gentleness and pleasure , that had long appeared dead , revive within me .
in a word , I conceived that , as the body should become habituated to the want of atmospheric pressure , the sensations of pain would gradually diminish and to endure them while they continued , I relied with confidence upon the iron hardihood of my constitution .
thus his own sorrows , or the shapes copied from nature that dwelt in his mind with beauty greater than their own , occupied our talk while I railed in my own griefs with cautious secresy .
one of the things they had against old Captain Marsh was that he was supposed to land on it sometimes at night when the tide was right .
for a time hunger and sleep contended , till the constellations reeled before my eyes and then were lost .
much amazingly much was left of the object despite the lapse of five hundred years .
truly , I was mad that night love which I have named a giant from its birth , wrestled with despair My heart , the field of combat , was wounded by the iron heel of the one , watered by the gushing tears of the other .
at that age I became acquainted with the celebrated poets of our own country ; but it was only when it had ceased to be in my power to derive its most important benefits from such a conviction that I perceived the necessity of becoming acquainted with more languages than that of my native country .
he prided himself on his connoisseurship in wine .
I stood in the gap , resisting the enemy the impalpable , invisible foe , who had so long besieged us as yet he had made no breach : it must be my care that he should not , secretly undermining , burst up within the very threshold of the temple of love , at whose altar I daily sacrificed .
you are well aware that , as no thought can perish , so no act is without infinite result .
the rivers were covered with ice , and no fish could be procured ; and thus I was cut off from my chief article of maintenance .
West said it was not fresh enough the hot summer air does not favour corpses .
I was indeed fellow to none .
but to return to my narrative .
so , as I knew he would feel some curiosity in regard to the identity of the person who had outwitted him , I thought it a pity not to give him a clue .
there is no knowing to what desperate act of vengeance this unprincipled attack might have aroused the inhabitants , but for the important fact that it now wanted only half a second of noon .
but the mathematician argues , from his finite truths , through habit , as if they were of an absolutely general applicability as the world indeed imagines them to be .
after some inquiries respecting his health , I asked him , not knowing what better to say , if he had yet obtained the scarabæus from Lieutenant G .
as he hung over the coffin , his face was concealed by long locks of ragged hair ; but one vast hand was extended , in colour and apparent texture like that of a mummy .
the fracture was an old one for its edges were incrusted with rust , and had apparently been accomplished by the blow of a hammer , which had partially imbedded , in the top of the bottom sash , the head portion of the nail .
nobody &apos;ll believe nothin &apos; .
the body on the table had risen with a blind and terrible groping , and we had heard a sound .
these were not all assembled in London , but each day witnessed the arrival of fresh numbers , and those who resided in the neighbouring towns , had received orders to assemble at one place , on the twentieth of November .
what language can describe the spectacle of a man lost in infinitely abysmal earth ; pawing , twisting , wheezing ; scrambling madly through sunken convolutions of immemorial blackness without an idea of time , safety , direction , or definite object ?
the art is of the most phenomenal perfection , largely Hellenic in idea , yet strangely individual .
in the meantime , Monsieur Maillard and myself , with some bottles of Sauterne and Vougeot between us , continued our conversation at the top of the voice .
I did not love ; but I was devoured by a restless wish to be something to others .
and everywhere horror brooded .
&quot; the letters W. V. B. are also branded very distinctly on his forehead , &quot; interrupted a second equerry , &quot; I supposed them , of course , to be the initials of Wilhelm Von Berlifitzing but all at the castle are positive in denying any knowledge of the horse . &quot;
everything was shadowy pantomime , as if seen at a vast distance through some intervening haze although on the other hand the newcomer and all subsequent comers loomed large and close , as if both near and distant , according to some abnormal geometry .
this was , even if we presume that Marie Rogêt was thrown into the river within three hours after she left her mother &apos;s house , only three days from the time she left her home three days to an hour .
we passed on eastwards , engaged in such solemn talk as the times inspired .
yet , even among these , the present , as an unalienable possession , became all of time to which they dared commit the precious freight of their hopes .
my tale was not one to announce publicly ; its astounding horror would be looked upon as madness by the vulgar .
especially , you cannot make a man of business out of a genius , any more than money out of a Jew , or the best nutmegs out of pine knots .
gathering from the grocery boy &apos;s map that the best route out of town was southward , I glanced first at the connecting door on the south side of the room .
the horde was very close now the air foul with their hoarse snarlings , and the ground almost shaking with their alien rhythmed footfalls .
Bribery , threats , and intrigue , soon discovered the secret that Raymond was alive , a prisoner , suffering the most rigorous confinement and wanton cruelties .
there were few who could boast of so pure a heart , and so much real humbleness of soul joined to a firm reliance on her own integrity and a belief in that of others .
but in giving an account of the progress of my intellect , I must not omit a circumstance which occurred in the beginning of the month of August of the same year .
its outer edges the edges of the drawing nearest the edge of the vellum were far more distinct than the others .
the gait of this figure was so odd that it sent a chill through me for it seemed to me the creature was almost hopping .
she was like one of Guido &apos;s saints , with heaven in her heart and in her look , so that when you saw her you only thought of that within , and costume and even feature were secondary to the mind that beamed in her countenance .
what , if the more potent of these fraternal deities should obtain dominion over it ?
he was not sure he had his little telescope with him , and put his hand in his blouse pocket to see .
he would sometimes mutter an unfamiliar jargon , and chant in bizarre rhythms which chilled the listener with a sense of unexplainable terror .
no one suspected , indeed , or had reason to suspect , that she was not actually dead .
thus the absence of Adrian , concerted for the purpose of separating , united them in firmer bonds than ever .
what impressions of deep awe did it inspire It was never opened save for the three periodical egressions and ingressions already mentioned ; then , in every creak of its mighty hinges , we found a plenitude of mystery a world of matter for solemn remark , or for more solemn meditation .
forgiveness return idle words are these I forgive the pain I endure ; but the trodden path cannot be retraced .
nor can I desire better , than , having been the chosen and beloved of his heart , here , in youth &apos;s prime , before added years can tarnish the best feelings of my nature , to watch his tomb , and speedily rejoin him in his blessed repose .
I AM the native of a sea surrounded nook , a cloud enshadowed land , which , when the surface of the globe , with its shoreless ocean and trackless continents , presents itself to my mind , appears only as an inconsiderable speck in the immense whole ; and yet , when balanced in the scale of mental power , far outweighed countries of larger extent and more numerous population .
when I look around me I feel ashamed of my former apprehensions .
my worst thoughts , then , were confirmed .
during one of their walks a poor cot in the foldings of a vale attracted their notice as being singularly disconsolate , while the number of half clothed children gathered about it spoke of penury in its worst shape .
for my own part , my exertions for the public good permitted me to observe more closely than most others , the virulence and extensive ravages of our sightless enemy .
&quot; it was the first of April .
the frame work of our stern was shattered excessively , and , in almost every respect , we had received considerable injury ; but to our extreme Joy we found the pumps unchoked , and that we had made no great shifting of our ballast .
evidently the bulk of my assailants had entered the southerly room and were massing in a lateral attack .
the personage robbed is more thoroughly convinced , every day , of the necessity of reclaiming her letter .
we gasped in the rapid modification of the air .
it was upon one of the longest of all my excursions of discovery in the deserted portion of the castle , less than a week before that fatal hour which I felt must mark the utmost limit of my stay on earth , beyond which I could have not even the slightest hope of continuing to draw breath , that I came upon the culminating event of my whole life .
their icy and glittering peaks shone in the sunlight over the clouds .
a second Frenchman differs , moreover , with the first , and is positive that the voice was that of an Italian ; but , not being cognizant of that tongue , is , like the Spaniard , &apos; convinced by the intonation.&apos;
my dearest hopes appear to be near their fulfilment .
he appeared about fifty years of age , but with an aspect expressive of the greatest benevolence ; a few grey hairs covered his temples , but those at the back of his head were nearly black .
it was in the blue room where stood the prince , with a group of pale courtiers by his side .
night was far advanced when I came to the halfway resting place and seated myself beside the fountain .
the design was new and elegant , but faulty ; so faulty , that although drawn with the hand and eye of taste , it was evidently the work of one who was not an architect .
afterward I found that his voice was music the music of deep viols and of crystalline spheres .
I thought it best , however , to throw out two five pound pieces of ballast , reserving still a weight of one hundred and sixty five pounds .
he died , at length , by dint of his own energies , which exhausted him .
my father is blinded by some malignant vision which I must remove .
I pitied Frankenstein ; my pity amounted to horror ; I abhorred myself .
our motion , no doubt , seems slower than it actually is this on account of our having no objects about us by which to estimate our velocity , and on account of our going with the wind .
you decorated our towns with edifices , you bestowed on us useful establishments , you gifted the soil with abundant fertility .
from van Schaack , sad to say , the relic was stolen in by a French trader , Jean Grenier , whose Popish zeal recognised the features of one whom he had been taught at his mother &apos;s knee to revere as St. Ibide .
his countenance was pale even to ghastliness , and his deep set eyes glared with unnatural lustre .
from that alley , which had a dim light , we turned to the left into an equally silent and still narrower alley with no light at all ; and in a minute made what I think was an obtuse angled bend toward the right in the dark .
it was the end , for whatever remains to me of life on the surface of this earth , of every vestige of mental peace and confidence in the integrity of Nature and of the human mind .
my heart beat fast as I worked myself up to speak to him , for I was determined not to be repulsed but I trembled to imagine what effect my words might have on him ; at length , with much hesitation I began : &quot; your kindness to me , my dearest father , and the affection the excessive affection that you had for me when you first returned will I hope excuse me in your eyes that I dare speak to you , although with the tender affection of a daughter , yet also with the freedom of a friend and equal .
up through the dark emptiness of the house I followed the bobbing candle in the hand of this shaking parody on man .
I feel my pulse ; it beats fast : I place my thin hand on my cheek ; it burns : there is a slight , quick spirit within me which is now emitting its last sparks .
soft shades encompassed us , and rocks tinged with beauteous hues .
there are , indeed , two or three epithets which might be considered as applicable to it in part ; I might say , for example , that the sound was harsh , and broken and hollow ; but the hideous whole is indescribable , for the simple reason that no similar sounds have ever jarred upon the ear of humanity .
I examined the contour of the lofty and pale forehead it was faultless how cold indeed that word when applied to a majesty so divine the skin rivalling the purest ivory , the commanding extent and repose , the gentle prominence of the regions above the temples ; and then the raven black , the glossy , the luxuriant and naturally curling tresses , setting forth the full force of the Homeric epithet , &quot; hyacinthine &quot; I looked at the delicate outlines of the nose and nowhere but in the graceful medallions of the Hebrews had I beheld a similar perfection .
the Baron Ritzner VON JUNG was a noble Hungarian family , every member of which at least as far back into antiquity as any certain records extend was more or less remarkable for talent of some description the majority for that species of grotesquerie in conception of which Tieck , a scion of the house , has given a vivid , although by no means the most vivid exemplifications .
in the spring after this event Old Whateley noticed the growing number of whippoorwills that would come out of Cold Spring Glen to chirp under his window at night .
my name , at present , is a very usual and rather plebeian one Simpson .
he argued that the fever alone was responsible for his nightly phantasies , and that when the touch abated he would be free from the monstrous visions .
destroy the idea of the atomic constitution and we should no longer be able to regard the ether as an entity , or at least as matter .
there came to that room wild streams of violet midnight glittering with dust of gold ; vortices of dust and fire , swirling out of the ultimate spaces and heavy with perfumes from beyond the worlds .
I was innocent ; that could easily be proved ; accordingly I followed my conductor in silence and was led to one of the best houses in the town .
I was nourished with high thoughts of honour and devotion .
one wondered what became of the bulk of the older folk , and whether the &quot; Innsmouth look &quot; were not a strange and insidious disease phenomenon which increased its hold as years advanced .
in an assembly of phantasms such as I have painted , it may well be supposed that no ordinary appearance could have excited such sensation .
I regard the project as thoroughly successful , and the easy navigation of the air in any direction not exactly in the teeth of a gale as no longer problematical .
the vocalists were chiefly ladies , and no individual sang less than well .
then I felt the icy blast from the east window where the moon had risen , and began to hear the shrieks in the castle far below me .
it was wound three times around the waist , and secured by a sort of hitch in the back .
never before had the screams of nightmare been such a public problem ; now the wise men almost wished they could forbid sleep in the small hours , that the shrieks of cities might less horribly disturb the pale , pitying moon as it glimmered on green waters gliding under bridges , and old steeples crumbling against a sickly sky .
when actuated by selfish and vicious motives , I asked you to undertake my unfinished work , and I renew this request now , when I am only induced by reason and virtue .
after that we sank the lifeboats with our guns and submerged .
several gentlemen swooned ; and a multitude of ladies were carried home in hysterics .
he went about the house as usual , but , as might be expected , fled in extreme terror at my approach .
I was very ill when I arrived and quite incapable of taking off my wet clothes that clung about me .
his stature could not have exceeded four feet .
how could I say to this generous being , &quot; maintain me in idleness .
it was uncanny and unnatural too much , thought Dr. Houghton , like the whole of the region he had entered so reluctantly in response to the urgent call .
my letter was calm and affectionate .
who can , with my knowledge , think of the earth &apos;s unknown caverns without a nightmare dread of future possibilities ?
the blank wall of the eastern gable was relieved by stairs with a balustrade running diagonally across it the ascent being from the south .
but another and younger lady resumed the theme .
my condition did not deprive me of sentience .
in the midst of such wretchedness as must soon have destroyed her , one thought only was matter of consolation .
it would have been well if he had concealed his sentiments , until he had come into possession of the power which would secure their practical development .
&quot; but the more I reflected upon the daring , dashing , and discriminating ingenuity of D ; upon the fact that the document must always have been at hand , if he intended to use it to good purpose ; and upon the decisive evidence , obtained by the Prefect , that it was not hidden within the limits of that dignitary &apos;s ordinary search the more satisfied I became that , to conceal this letter , the Minister had resorted to the comprehensive and sagacious expedient of not attempting to conceal it at all .
&quot; that , Clara , &quot; I said , &quot; is the gate , that the street which yestermorn your father rode up . &quot;
we arrived in London at about eleven at night .
what was it the ancient toper had muttered about the likeness of my eyes to Captain Obed &apos;s ?
even at that time I shuddered at the picture he drew of his passions : he had the imagination of a poet , and when he described the whirlwind that then tore his feelings he gave his words the impress of life so vividly that I believed while I trembled .
&quot; oh , abominable &quot; growled his Royal Highness .
I will converse with Idris ; then all that a friend can do , I will do ; to her it must belong to play the lover &apos;s part , if she be capable of it . &quot;
the materials at present within my command hardly appeared adequate to so arduous an undertaking , but I doubted not that I should ultimately succeed .
not to weary the company , is the ostensible , and no doubt the real object of the limitation .
in the course of time callers professed to hear sounds in the sealed upper story even when all the family were downstairs , and they wondered how swiftly or how lingeringly a cow or bullock was usually sacrificed .
there fish can be got at all hours , without much risk , and therefore these places are preferred .
upon this table was placed a carriage , six inches in length , made of wood , and drawn by two horses of the same material .
&quot; nothing , you old fright I know nothing about him at all ; only I had an ancestor of that name , once upon a time . &quot;
I have no Doubt but that he sincerely lov &apos;d Mr. Garrick , for he never alluded to him as he did to Foote , who was a very coarse Fellow despite his comick Genius .
she wanted , she said , to give us a specimen of her new accomplishment ; for since she had been in London , she had applied herself to music , and sang , without much power , but with a great deal of sweetness .
in the silence there came a slight sound from the window the shutter must have rattled in the night wind and for some reason I started almost as violently as did Erich Zann .
I find it sweet to watch the progressive decay of my strength , and to repeat to myself , another day and yet another , but again I shall not see the red leaves of autumn ; before that time I shall be with my father .
upon opening my eyes my first sensation was an overmastering desire to visit the rock temple ; a desire which grew every instant , yet which I automatically sought to resist through some emotion of fear which operated in the reverse direction .
we really do not believe the vagabond can write a word that hasn &apos;t an O in it .
it was growing late , and it behooved us to make exertion , that we might get every thing housed before daylight .
she blushed very deeply then averted her eyes then slowly and cautiously looked around , apparently to see if my rash action had been noticed then leaned over toward the gentleman who sat by her side .
realising he was about to hang himself , I started forward to dissuade or save him .
the light boat heaves not , nor is opposed by death bearing waves ; the ether opens before the prow , and the shadow of the globe that upholds it , shelters us from the noon day sun .
this buckle had three teeth , which , being somewhat rusty , turned with great difficulty on their axis .
oh , earth How often did I imprecate curses on the cause of my being The mildness of my nature had fled , and all within me was turned to gall and bitterness .
he half feared to displease him ; but he trusted that his generous kindness would be administered so delicately , as not to excite repulse .
was reputed to have money put by .
CHAPTER &quot; I lay on my straw , but I could not sleep .
the immense flaming ocean writhes and is tortured uncomplainingly .
his task proved a vent for his emotion , and he toiled more steadily each day , shunning the gaieties he once had relished .
in truth I am in love with death ; no maiden ever took more pleasure in the contemplation of her bridal attire than I in fancying my limbs already enwrapt in their shroud : is it not my marriage dress ?
even the queen &apos;s dislike of the favourite was ineffectual to deprive him of his son &apos;s admiration : it was bitter , sarcastic , contemptuous but as she bestowed her heavy censure alike on his virtues as his errors , on his devoted friendship and his ill bestowed loves , on his disinterestedness and his prodigality , on his pre possessing grace of manner , and the facility with which he yielded to temptation , her double shot proved too heavy , and fell short of the mark .
a murmur arose , the city was the prey of pestilence ; already had a mighty power subjugated the inhabitants ; Death had become lord of Constantinople .
sickly and few , the country people neither went out to sow nor reap ; but sauntered about the meadows , or lay under the hedges , when the inclement sky did not drive them to take shelter under the nearest roof .
but it were absurd to pause in the detail of my extravagance .
I staggered back in the dark , without the means of striking a light , crashing against the table , overturning a chair , and finally groping my way to the place where the blackness screamed with shocking music .
my breath nearly ceased to come , and I put every ounce of will power into the task of holding my eyelids down .
one thing in my favour was the deserted and ruinous state of the abutting buildings , and the number of skylights gaping blackly open in each row .
after having landed , they proceeded to search the country , parties going in different directions among the woods and vines .
this method is very simple , but not so much so as the politics .
as evening came on , he reverted to the past .
it was mere instinct that prompted me to do this which was undoubtedly the very best thing I could have done for I was too much flurried to think .
his forehead , although little wrinkled , seems to bear upon it the stamp of a myriad of years .
within these walls , and amongst the dark and shadowy forests , the wild ravines and grottoes of the hillside below , were spent the first years of my troubled life .
of the mother I had never spoken to the daughter , it was impossible to speak .
Raymond had recovered from the gaunt and pallid looks of fever .
I had seen maps of the town , and knew where to find the home of my people .
there were , however , as must necessarily happen in a building so awkwardly planned , many little nooks or recesses , the odds and ends of the structure ; and these the economic ingenuity of Dr. Bransby had also fitted up as dormitories ; although , being the merest closets , they were capable of accommodating but a single individual .
to see life in his limbs to know that soon life would no longer be there ; to see the warm breath issue from his lips and to know they would soon be chill I will not continue to trace this frightful picture ; you suffered this torture once ; I never did .
Roman dreams were no uncommon features of my youth I used to follow the divine Julius all over Gallia as a Tribunus Militum o &apos;nights but I had so long ceased to experience them , that the present one impressed me with extraordinary force .
the present width of track fifty feet is considered , indeed , scarcely secure enough .
&quot; I know that the sympathy of a stranger can be but of little relief to one borne down as you are by so strange a misfortune .
I thought of the rain and of a leaky roof , but rain is not red .
look not around , nor forward but back .
it was the oddly conventionalised figure of a crouching winged hound , or Sphinx with a semi canine face , and was exquisitely carved in antique Oriental fashion from a small piece of green jade .
it was accordingly opened by those dignitaries upon the spot , and found to contain the following extraordinary , and indeed very serious , communications .
&quot; this , &quot; I thought , &quot; is power Not to be strong of limb , hard of heart , ferocious , and daring ; but kind compassionate and soft . &quot;
the spirits of the departed seemed to flit around and to cast a shadow , which was felt but not seen , around the head of the mourner .
yet even thus I loved them to adoration ; and to save them , I resolved to dedicate myself to my most abhorred task .
there was nothing that I could see .
in this latter , where the pieces have different and bizarre motions , with various and variable values , what is only complex is mistaken a not unusual error for what is profound .
in two months Elinor would be twenty one : every thing was prepared for their union .
his breathing became immediately more easy , and he seemed to suffer no physical uneasiness .
nay , when I look back on many of my wild thoughts , thoughts with which actions sometimes endeavoured to keep pace ; when I tossed my hands high calling down the cope of heaven to fall on me and bury me ; when I tore my hair and throwing it to the winds cried , &quot; Ye are free , go seek my father &quot; And then , like the unfortunate Constance , catching at them again and tying them up , that nought might find him if I might not .
there was a daemoniac alteration in the sequence of the seasons the autumn heat lingered fearsomely , and everyone felt that the world and perhaps the universe had passed from the control of known gods or forces to that of gods or forces which were unknown .
we cannot be far from the American coast .
I never heard a more fluent talker , or a man of greater general information .
the plague had not been kind to him , yet had left him this small furry thing to mitigate his sorrow ; and when one is very young , one can find great relief in the lively antics of a black kitten .
its top or head piece pressed upon the skull of the wearer , and extended over it in the fashion of a hood , giving to the entire face an air of indescribable interest .
the lofty walls , gigantic in height even unproportionably so were hung from summit to foot , in vast folds , with a heavy and massive looking tapestry tapestry of a material which was found alike as a carpet on the floor , as a covering for the ottomans and the ebony bed , as a canopy for the bed , and as the gorgeous volutes of the curtains which partially shaded the window .
they must , then , have the power of fastening themselves .
for the first time , also , I felt what the duties of a creator towards his creature were , and that I ought to render him happy before I complained of his wickedness .
his intellect was of that order to which the acquisition of knowledge is less a labor than an intuition and a necessity .
a change indeed had taken place in me ; my health , which had hitherto declined , was now much restored ; and my spirits , when unchecked by the memory of my unhappy promise , rose proportionably .
the snows descended on my head , and I saw the print of his huge step on the white plain .
as I have said , my grandmother and uncle Douglas had always disturbed me .
the boy would seem to improve after these visits , and had Mercy been as wise as she was well meaning , she would have let him live permanently with Peleg .
years flew , while I experienced no relief .
with certain minds , under certain conditions , it becomes absolutely irresistible .
more and more I inclined to the belief that in the pitiful personality who cringed before me lay the disordered nucleus of something beyond my comprehension ; something infinitely beyond the comprehension of my more experienced but less imaginative medical and scientific colleagues .
secondly , Whether he ought to exchange his employment of plucking blackberries , and nursing wounded partridges in the forest , for the command of a nation ?
of course the town &apos;s real business was the refinery , whose commercial office was on the square only a few doors east of where we stood .
they were of a deep hazel , exceedingly large and lustrous ; and there was perceptible about them , ever and anon , just that amount of interesting obliquity which gives pregnancy to expression .
this much he baldly told , yet without a hint of what came after .
I had seen it clearly from my hotel window , and knew about how it lay .
I stirred not but gazed upon the apparition .
I am pining for a return to my family and to my home , and as the price of any farther communication on my part in consideration of the light which I have it in my power to throw upon many very important branches of physical and metaphysical science I must solicit , through the influence of your honorable body , a pardon for the crime of which I have been guilty in the death of the creditors upon my departure from Rotterdam .
his disease was of that character which would admit of exact calculation in respect to the epoch of its termination in death ; and it was finally arranged between us that he would send for me about twenty four hours before the period announced by his physicians as that of his decease .
there had been virtually a tunnel through his body something had eaten his heart out .
there was no sound , but just then the electric lights went out and I saw outlined against some phosphorescence of the nether world a horde of silent toiling things which only insanity or worse could create .
is this gentle and lovely being lost forever ?
that there he was no peasant or degenerate , but a creature of importance and vivid life ; moving proudly and dominantly , and checked only by a certain deadly enemy , who seemed to be a being of visible yet ethereal structure , and who did not appear to be of human shape , since Slater never referred to it as a man , or as aught save a thing .
the first thing that struck you on beholding that charming countenance was its perfect goodness and frankness ; candour sat upon her brow , simplicity in her eyes , heavenly benignity in her smile .
whose could that familiar voice be ?
&quot; to believe you , &quot; she exclaimed , &quot; I would give up all , and expire with joy , so that in death I could feel that you were true but that cannot be &quot; &quot; Perdita , &quot; continued Raymond , &quot; you do not see the precipice on which you stand .
of the reality of the jungle city described by old Sir Wade , Arthur Jermyn had no further doubt ; and was hardly astonished when early in he came upon what was left of it .
such a supposition , notwithstanding what we read in fiction , is altogether inconsistent with real existence ; but where and in what state was I ? the condemned to death , I knew , perished usually at the autos da fe , and one of these had been held on the very night of the day of my trial .
at first , she seemed to wish to shun me ; and then , yielding to my earnest questioning , she threw herself on my neck , and wept aloud : &quot; once more , &quot; she cried , &quot; once more on your friendly breast , my beloved brother , can the lost Perdita pour forth her sorrows .
but I was unable to excite in any breast the same craving appetite for knowledge that existed in mine .
as no bell was discernible , I rapped with my stick against the door , which stood half open .
how , on my knees I have fancied myself close to my father &apos;s grave and struck the ground in anger that it should cover him from me .
the day before we had passed alone together in the country ; I remember we had talked of future travels that we should undertake together .
why should the breeze gently stir the trees , man felt not its refreshment ?
I tried , therefore , to dress my food in the same manner , placing it on the live embers .
alas to enumerate the adornments of humanity , shews , by what we have lost , how supremely great man was .
beautiful beyond words was the marble sepulchre which stricken Musides carved for his beloved friend .
I will put him to the proof .
for a purpose such as this the cellar was well adapted .
but Caroline Beaufort possessed a mind of an uncommon mould , and her courage rose to support her in her adversity .
I turned short upon Bluddennuff .
where once had been only strength and honour , taste and learning now abode as well .
between two and three in the morning the moon rose ; and I then , putting my basket aboard a little skiff , sailed out about four miles from the shore .
as the road wound down the seaward slope I listened for the merry sounds of a village at evening , but did not hear them .
all around me was changed from a dull uniformity to the brightest scene of joy and delight .
so high were they that one within might sometimes fancy himself beneath only the sky ; yet when lighted with torches dipt in the oil of Dothur their walls shewed vast paintings of kings and armies , of a splendour at once inspiring and stupefying to the beholder .
&quot; it is as sure , &quot; he was wont to say , when any doubt was entertained of his veracity , &quot; as sure as there is a sea where the ship itself will grow in bulk like the living body of the seaman . &quot;
in the autumn it would be in the northwest .
I returned home not disappointed , for I have said that I had long considered those authors useless whom the professor reprobated ; but I returned not at all the more inclined to recur to these studies in any shape .
in this emergency , to feed the very people to whom we had given refuge , we were obliged to yield to the plough and the mattock our pleasure grounds and parks .
what , in substance , both the Esquimau wizards and the Louisiana swamp priests had chanted to their kindred idols was something very like this the word divisions being guessed at from traditional breaks in the phrase as chanted aloud : &quot; Ph &apos;nglui mglw &apos;nafh Cthulhu R &apos;lyeh wgah &apos;nagl fhtagn . &quot;
tell me what you can make of it . &quot;
I was irresolutely speculating on when I had better attack the northward door , and on how I could least audibly manage it , when I noticed that the vague noises underfoot had given place to a fresh and heavier creaking of the stairs .
I allowed him a third of the profit , but he was advised to insist upon half .
this time they actually reached him , and he felt the crone &apos;s withered claws clutching at him .
its position was a kind of crouch , and as one looked one felt that at any moment it might drop its present prey and seek a juicier morsel .
for the sympathy that I desired must be so pure , so divested of influence from outward circumstances that in the world I could not fail of being balked by the gross materials that perpetually mingle even with its best feelings .
besides , some things are so completely ludicrous , that a man must laugh or die .
supposing him to have belonged to the old Count &apos;s stud of foreign horses , we led him back as an estray .
I thought also of my father and surviving brother ; should I by my base desertion leave them exposed and unprotected to the malice of the fiend whom I had let loose among them ?
those divine lights which shone on me as did those of Beatrice upon Dante , and well might I say with him yet with what different feelings e quasi mi perdei gli occhi chini .
perhaps it was natural for him to dream a new name ; for he was the last of his family , and alone among the indifferent millions of London , so there were not many to speak to him and remind him who he had been .
the question might then have been asked &quot; Why do we not see it ? &quot;
I fancied that each shadow , as the sun descended lower and lower , separated itself sullenly from the trunk that gave it birth , and thus became absorbed by the stream ; while other shadows issued momently from the trees , taking the place of their predecessors thus entombed .
as these are facts , which any one who doubts them may prove by actual calculation , we deem it unnecessary to dwell upon them .
Innsmouth &apos;s ruined roofs and toppling steeples loomed up greyly toward the southeast , but not a living creature did I spy in all the desolate salt marshes around .
Sargent was sorry , but I would have to stop over at the Gilman .
I then slept , and upon awaking , I must have returned upon my steps thus supposing the circuit nearly double what it actually was .
we existed within ourselves alone .
thus it will appear that , shaken from its balance only by trivial things , my reason bore resemblance to that ocean crag spoken of by Ptolemy Hephestion , which steadily resisting the attacks of human violence , and the fiercer fury of the waters and the winds , trembled only to the touch of the flower called Asphodel .
they hanged her on GALLOWS Hill , with Cotton Mather looking sanctimoniously on .
in the manner of thrusting the corpse up the chimney , you will admit that there was something excessively outré something altogether irreconcilable with our common notions of human action , even when we suppose the actors the most depraved of men .
I conjure you therefore to listen to my words , and if with the good guilt may be in any degree extenuated by sharp agony , and remorse that rends the brain as madness perhaps you may think , though I dare not , that I have some claim to your compassion .
so soon as he had finished , the youth began , not to play , but to utter sounds that were monotonous , and neither resembling the harmony of the old man &apos;s instrument nor the songs of the birds ; I since found that he read aloud , but at that time I knew nothing of the science of words or letters .
but the true epicure in the terrible , to whom a new thrill of unutterable ghastliness is the chief end and justification of existence , esteems most of all the ancient , lonely farmhouses of backwoods New England ; for there the dark elements of strength , solitude , grotesqueness , and ignorance combine to form the perfection of the hideous .
upon examining the other window , a similar nail was seen similarly fitted in it ; and a vigorous attempt to raise this sash , failed also .
the loveliness of Eleonora was that of the Seraphim ; but she was a maiden artless and innocent as the brief life she had led among the flowers .
the earlier experience had come in , seventeen years before , when the American archaeological Society held its annual meeting in St. Louis .
something was coming along that road , and I must lie low till its passage and vanishment in the distance .
there was an opening where I could dump them in .
the skeleton , though crushed in places by the jaws of the thing that had killed it , held together with surprising firmness , and we gloated over the clean white skull and its long , firm teeth and its eyeless sockets that once had glowed with a charnel fever like our own .
there was nothing more .
he is not spirit , for he exists .
if she had gone near the spot where his body lay , it was without her knowledge .
yet all this was apart from any extraordinary dilapidation .
he is accordingly in haste to show that it was not kept on shore ; for , if so , &apos; some trace would be found on shore of the murderers.&apos;
the youth and his companion had each of them several names , but the old man had only one , which was &apos; father.&apos;
&quot; it is almost needless to say that , upon coming to a due sense of my situation , and emerging from the terror which had absorbed every faculty of my soul , my attention was , in the first place , wholly directed to the contemplation of the general physical appearance of the moon .
they groaned for perfected knowledge .
Adrian , who was beside me , hastened to him , and jumping down the benches , was at his side in a moment .
&quot; the sun is alone , &quot; she said , &quot; but we are not .
ashamed to apply again to the king , he turned his back upon London , its false delights and clinging miseries ; and , with poverty for his sole companion , buried himself in solitude among the hills and lakes of Cumberland .
at times we gasped for breath at an elevation beyond the albatross at times became dizzy with the velocity of our descent into some watery hell , where the air grew stagnant , and no sound disturbed the slumbers of the kraken .
Wilbur was closing all the doors and windows on the ground floor , and seemed to be taking out partitions as he and his grandfather had done upstairs four years before .
really now it does seem to me quite unaccountable how any thing so obviously feasible could have escaped the sagacity of the ancient savans .
the first sound of martial instruments that came upon our undisciplined foe , inspired surprise , not unmingled with dread .
nobody but Tabitha Turnip calls me Suky Snobbs .
what worried us more was the talk of Boatswain Müller , which grew wilder as night came on .
in the elder time chosen men had talked with the entombed Old Ones in dreams , but then something had happened .
the men eagerly began their defence ; he put them aside , saying , &quot; Two of you at once on a mere lad for shame &quot; He came up to me : &quot; Verney , &quot; he cried , &quot; Lionel Verney , do we meet thus for the first time ?
this was on the oceanward side that he could not see , where the narrow portal opened on blank space thousands of feet in the misty sky above the waves .
cold , want , and fatigue were the least pains which I was destined to endure ; I was cursed by some devil and carried about with me my eternal hell ; yet still a spirit of good followed and directed my steps and when I most murmured would suddenly extricate me from seemingly insurmountable difficulties .
the flesh of the neck was much swollen .
I remember when Nyarlathotep came to my city the great , the old , the terrible city of unnumbered crimes .
the poor that stopped at their door were never driven away .
take , now , a step beyond the luminiferous ether conceive a matter as much more rare than the ether , as this ether is more rare than the metal , and we arrive at once in spite of all the school dogmas at a unique mass an unparticled matter .
they were dirty papers very dirty and Gluck , the printer , would take his Bible oath to their having been printed in Rotterdam .
about all this there was a nobility of soul a dignity of candor which delighted which enchanted me which eternally riveted my chains .
after an interval the explosions ceased , but the flames still shot up from various quarters ; the dome of St. Sophia had disappeared .
my uncle at once telephoned the family , and from that time forward kept close watch of the case ; calling often at the Thayer Street office of Dr. Tobey , whom he learned to be in charge .
but if no endeavour on my part can contribute to your happiness , let me at least know your sorrow , and surely my earnest love and deep sympathy must soothe your despair .
we left Oxford with regret and proceeded to Matlock , which was our next place of rest .
nor will we be the less tormented if the song in itself be good , or the opera air meritorious .
now we are to understand that Marie Rogêt was precipitated from a boat .
I have heard a picture described , wherein all the inhabitants of earth were drawn out in fear to stand the encounter of Death .
he could dispel the seriousness of Perdita , and take the sting from the torturing activity of my nature .
I cannot forbear giving a specimen of the general philosophy of the volume .
to a season of political and social upheaval was added a strange and brooding apprehension of hideous physical danger ; a danger widespread and all embracing , such a danger as may be imagined only in the most terrible phantasms of the night .
my wife and my sister will never recover from their horror .
my conclusion , from what I saw and heard , was , that , the artist , by some unaccountable freak of fate , or perhaps in some fit of enthusiastic and fanciful passion , had been induced to unite himself with a person altogether beneath him , and that the natural result , entire and speedy disgust , had ensued .
but you can &apos;t live here and I don &apos;t think you &apos;ll wish to go back to London .
the truth is , the members indulged in too flippant a tone of discussion .
after long suffering and bitter experience , some panacea might be discovered ; as it was , all that received infection died all however were not infected ; and it became our part to fix deep the foundations , and raise high the barrier between contagion and the sane ; to introduce such order as would conduce to the well being of the survivors , and as would preserve hope and some portion of happiness to those who were spectators of the still renewed tragedy .
I visited Edinburgh with languid eyes and mind ; and yet that city might have interested the most unfortunate being .
my best feelings were called into play to give fitting responses to the generosity , wisdom , and amenity of my new friend .
&quot; I n d e e d &quot; ejaculated the Baron , as if slowly and deliberately impressed with the truth of some exciting idea .
and then to the sound of obscure harmonies there floated into that room from the deep all the dreams and memories of earth &apos;s sunken Mighty Ones .
I &apos;ve never ben there and have no wish to go , but I guess a daytime trip couldn &apos;t hurt you even though the people hereabouts will advise you not to make it .
I saw he was edging toward the open stair well in the floor , and tried to shout a warning , but he did not hear me .
under the guidance of my new preceptors I entered with the greatest diligence into the search of the philosopher &apos;s stone and the elixir of life ; but the latter soon obtained my undivided attention .
it fell among the ropes of the belfry and remained .
the Countess had the advantage of position ; so I was vanquished , though I would not yield .
the two remaining carboys I emptied down without particular result , and after a time I felt it safe to shovel the earth back into the pit .
she looked up wondering , and he saw that it was Evadne Zaimi .
it was not the plague that visited our little boy so roughly ; but she could not listen to my assurances ; apprehension deprived her of judgment and reflection ; every slight convulsion of her child &apos;s features shook her frame if he moved , she dreaded the instant crisis ; if he remained still , she saw death in his torpor , and the cloud on her brow darkened .
they sometimes kept certain especially repulsive characters out of sight when government agents and others from the outside world came to town .
but if the net work were separated from the hoop to admit this passage , what was to sustain the car in the meantime ?
the zealous attention of Perdita claimed the first rank in the causes which induced his rapid recovery ; but the second was surely the delight he felt in the affection and good will of the Greeks .
by gradations , still more imperceptible , this cloud assumes shape , as did the vapor from the bottle out of which arose the genius in the Arabian nights .
jest like a crazy man on the subjeck .
having perused the cartel , he wrote the following reply , which I carried to Hermann .
and he was a passionate , and wild , and moody man , who became lost in reveries ; so that he would not see that the light which fell so ghastly in that lone turret withered the health and the spirits of his bride , who pined visibly to all but him .
either one of such a pair was worth a couple of the ordinary ocular organs .
Adrian did not rest only with the exertions he could make with regard to his own possessions .
perhaps in rational philosophy none could be better chosen than this scheme of migration , which would draw us from the immediate scene of our woe , and , leading us through pleasant and picturesque countries , amuse for a time our despair .
long have I fought with death , and much &quot; he stretched out his thin hand &quot; much have I suffered in the struggle .
with onyx were they paved , save those whereon the horses and camels and elephants trod , which were paved with granite .
in commenting on the contour of the mummy &apos;s face , M. Verhaeren suggested a whimsical comparison ; or rather , expressed a humorous wonder just how it would strike his correspondent , but was too much interested scientifically to waste many words in levity .
I have endured incalculable fatigue , and cold , and hunger ; do you dare destroy my hopes ? &quot; &quot; begone I do break my promise ; never will I create another like yourself , equal in deformity and wickedness . &quot;
ah It is well for the unfortunate to be resigned , but for the guilty there is no peace .
but it is by no means my object to pen an essay on happiness .
if Raymond had been united to Idris , this post had been his stepping stone to higher dignity ; and his desire for power and fame had been crowned with fullest measure .
the external appearance , and , especially , the deportment of the Turk , are , when we consider them as imitations of life , but very indifferent imitations .
the river was also odorous with evil stenches which I have never smelled elsewhere , and which may some day help me to find it , since I should recognise them at once .
&quot; Sir &quot; replied the Duc , &quot; I am not to be insulted with impunity Sir I shall take the earliest opportunity of avenging this insult Sir you shall hear from me in the meantime au revoir &quot; and the Duc was bowing himself out of the satanic presence , when he was interrupted and brought back by a gentleman in waiting .
when a door , at length , closed upon her , my glance sought instinctively and eagerly the countenance of the brother but he had buried his face in his hands , and I could only perceive that a far more than ordinary wanness had overspread the emaciated fingers through which trickled many passionate tears .
I was urged by compassion to hasten to the hut , for the purpose of ascertaining his situation , and administering to his wants .
the translucent and shining waters of the calm sea covered fragments of old Roman villas , which were interlaced by sea weed , and received diamond tints from the chequering of the sun beams ; the blue and pellucid element was such as Galatea might have skimmed in her car of mother of pearl ; or Cleopatra , more fitly than the Nile , have chosen as the path of her magic ship .
the only question is what could the savages wish him surrendered for .
none could tell just whose arrest might cut off the damnable plotting at its source .
was it possible they heard not ?
it might , too , have been the singular cold that alienated me ; for such chilliness was abnormal on so hot a day , and the abnormal always excites aversion , distrust , and fear .
should you ever be drowned or hung , be sure and make a note of your sensations they will be worth to you ten guineas a sheet .
in Sarnath were fifty streets from the lake to the gates of the caravans , and fifty more intersecting them .
he was glad to sink into the vaguely roaring twilight abysses , though the pursuit of that iridescent bubble congeries and that kaleidoscopic little polyhedron was menacing and irritating .
Raymond contemplated it with delight ; the more he gazed , the more pleased he was ; and yet the errors multiplied under inspection .
the fever which consumed her rendered her nights uneasy ; and in her perturbed state of half slumber , she spoke of sounds , and of motions , in and about the chamber of the turret , which I concluded had no origin save in the distemper of her fancy , or perhaps in the phantasmagoric influences of the chamber itself .
they had a kind of obscure suspiciousness , as if there were something amiss with anyone too much interested in Innsmouth .
this last blow overcame her , and she knelt by Beaufort &apos;s coffin weeping bitterly , when my father entered the chamber .
as a third , I spoke of my fear that she might quit the city before I could have the opportunity of a formal introduction .
it was his humor , now , to decline all conversation on the subject of the murder , until about noon the next day .
in after life I looked back with wonder to what I then was ; how utterly worthless I should have become if I had pursued my lawless career .
I was inquisitive as to the internal principles of action of those around me : anxious to read their thoughts justly , and for ever occupied in divining their inmost mind .
with whom should he be angry ?
this is the Land of Fancy , and we walked to the verdant shore upon a golden bridge of moonbeams .
the anthropomorphic patch of mould on the floor , the form of the yellowish vapour , and the curvature of the tree roots in some of the old tales , all argued at least a remote and reminiscent connexion with the human shape ; but how representative or permanent that similarity might be , none could say with any kind of certainty .
I shall never I know that I shall never be satisfied with regard to the nature of my conceptions .
which was the upermost ?
from the hour of reading this item until midnight , West sat almost paralysed .
I grew self willed , addicted to the wildest caprices , and a prey to the most ungovernable passions .
when we came to know the squatters better , we found them curiously likeable in many ways .
I had a persuasion that I should be supposed mad , and this in itself would forever have chained my tongue .
as the man mumbled on in his shocking ecstasy the expression on his hairy , spectacled face became indescribable , but his voice sank rather than mounted .
we had taken , perhaps , a dozen steps in this direction , when , with a loud oath , Legrand strode up to Jupiter , and seized him by the collar .
through those of the front room no one could have escaped without notice from the crowd in the street .
&quot; none , &quot; said I , turning it up .
and now , as if exhausted with emotion , she suffered her white arms to fall , and returned solemnly to her bed of death .
Blending with this display of palatial magnificence , or rather , supplanting it at times in kaleidoscopic rotation , were glimpses of wide plains and graceful valleys , high mountains and inviting grottoes ; covered with every lovely attribute of scenery which my delighted eye could conceive of , yet formed wholly of some glowing , ethereal , plastic entity , which in consistency partook as much of spirit as of matter .
they have said , I know not for what reason , that I never had a friend , but that art , philosophy , and insanity had filled all my tragic life .
the idea generally received is that this , as well as three smaller vortices among the Ferroe islands , &quot; have no other cause than the collision of waves rising and falling , at flux and reflux , against a ridge of rocks and shelves , which confines the water so that it precipitates itself like a cataract ; and thus the higher the flood rises , the deeper must the fall be , and the natural result of all is a whirlpool or vortex , the prodigious suction of which is sufficiently known by lesser experiments . &quot;
poor girl what she then suffered I could never entirely forgive Raymond for the trials he imposed on her , occasioned as they were by a selfish feeling on his part .
and if ye suffer no singers among you , where shall be the fruits of your toil ?
his last effort was a letter to the king , full of touching eloquence , and of occasional flashes of that brilliant spirit which was an integral part of him .
conflicting passions , long cherished love , and self inflicted disappointment , made her regard death alone as sufficient refuge for her woe .
it was told that I should be known and welcomed , for village legend lives long ; so I hastened through Back Street to Circle Court , and across the fresh snow on the one full flagstone pavement in the town , to where Green Lane leads off behind the Market house .
yet not for a moment did I suppose myself actually dead .
Valdemar , can you explain to us what are your feelings or wishes now ? &quot;
I take pleasure in arranging all the little details which will occur when I shall no longer be .
Birch heeded this advice all the rest of his life till he told me his story ; and when I saw the scars ancient and whitened as they then were I agreed that he was wise in so doing .
I had first , however , provided for my sustenance for that day by a loaf of coarse bread , which I purloined , and a cup with which I could drink more conveniently than from my hand of the pure water which flowed by my retreat .
in unusually rational moments , I would even go so far as to seek a natural explanation , attributing the early deaths of my ancestors to the sinister Charles Le Sorcier and his heirs ; yet having found upon careful inquiry that there were no known descendants of the alchemist , I would fall back to occult studies , and once more endeavour to find a spell that would release my house from its terrible burden .
this was most unusual something that had never happened to us before and I began to feel a little uneasy , without exactly knowing why .
he said Pickman repelled him more and more every day , and almost frightened him toward the last that the fellow &apos;s features and expression were slowly developing in a way he didn &apos;t like ; in a way that wasn &apos;t human .
by a frequent repetition of these , a result had arisen , which of late days has become so common as to attract little or no attention , but which , at the period of which I write , had very rarely been known in America .
pulsation had ceased .
I had never yet seen a being resembling me or who claimed any intercourse with me .
at the same time , it is the chanticleer note to the ghost that has so long overawed us .
I have often been reproached with the aridity of my genius ; a deficiency of imagination has been imputed to me as a crime ; and the Pyrrhonism of my opinions has at all times rendered me notorious .
&quot; while I improved in speech , I also learned the science of letters as it was taught to the stranger , and this opened before me a wide field for wonder and delight .
I spoke not , and he took me gently by the hand : it was indented with the impress of human nails .
an abode , which from noble and lofty principle , she had refused to exchange for one of greater luxury .
here is just such an arrangement as would naturally be made by a not over acute person wishing to dispose the articles naturally .
he did not always glance at the same place in the sky it seemed to be a different place at different times .
now I could only answer my father with a look of despair and endeavour to hide myself from his view .
I grew sick , and numb , and chilly , and dizzy , and so fell prostrate at once .
I say the singularity of this coincidence absolutely stupified me for a time .
a third told of the return of the son , grown to manhood or apehood or godhood , as the case might be yet unconscious of his identity .
the machine obeyed the slightest motion of the helm ; and , the wind blowing steadily , there was no let or obstacle to our course .
therefore cease to regard that sea , and give your whole attention to the mass of houses that lie beneath us .
it was an aural delusion ; a sensation of rhythmic , melodic sound as of some wild yet beautiful chant or choral hymn , coming from the outside through the absolutely sound proof hull of the U .
the arrival of several with fresh stories of marvels , from the fleet ; the exaggerations bestowed on what was already known ; tales of old prophecies , of fearful histories of whole regions which had been laid waste during the present year by pestilence , alarmed and occupied the troops .
I placed my hand upon the solid fabric of the catacombs , and felt satisfied .
my wealth is in little memories and dreams , and in hopes that I sing in gardens when the moon is tender and the west wind stirs the lotos buds . &quot;
were the antagonist seated in contact with the box , the secret would be liable to discovery , by his detecting , with the aid of a quick car , the breathings of the man concealed . .
some days had passed since I had visited the spot .
to the nearest of these he did , in fact , abandon the very unusual wealth which was his own before the inheritance .
the back was piebald with yellow and black , and dimly suggested the squamous covering of certain snakes .
by degrees , the froth and the rainbow disappeared , and the bottom of the gulf seemed slowly to uprise .
home His Life His writings His creations His study popular culture Internet resources About This site Herbert West Reanimator By H. P. I. From the Dark Of Herbert West , who was my friend in college and in after life , I can speak only with extreme terror .
to avoid the mortification consequent upon his disasters , he left New Orleans , the city of his forefathers , and took up his residence at Sullivan &apos;s Island , near Charleston , South Carolina .
be assured that for my own sake , as well as yours , I will not rashly encounter danger .
emulation , that in its excess almost assumed the venomous properties of envy , gave a sting to these feelings .
he sits with his right leg upon his left knee , wears a grave countenance , and always keeps one of his eyes , at least , resolutely bent upon a certain remarkable object in the centre of the plain .
and thinking thus , they bade the stranger stay and sing in the square before the Tower of Mlin , though they liked not the colour of his tattered robe , nor the myrrh in his hair , nor his chaplet of vine leaves , nor the youth in his golden voice .
the band played the wild eastern air of Weber introduced in Abon Hassan ; its volatile notes gave wings to the feet of the dancers , while the lookers on unconsciously beat time .
I was , perhaps , the more forcibly impressed with it , as he gave it , because , in the under or mystic current of its meaning , I fancied that I perceived , and for the first time , a full consciousness on the part of Usher , of the tottering of his lofty reason upon her throne .
during our walk , Clerval endeavoured to say a few words of consolation ; he could only express his heartfelt sympathy .
at length it became evident that a slight , a very feeble , and barely noticeable tinge of color had flushed up within the cheeks , and along the sunken small veins of the eyelids .
farewell to courtly pleasure ; to politic intrigue ; to the maze of passion and folly All hail , England native England , receive thy child thou art the scene of all my hopes , the mighty theatre on which is acted the only drama that can , heart and soul , bear me along with it in its development .
Adrian wrote a brief note to his mother , informing her that Idris was under his care and guardianship .
&quot; my dear Frankenstein , &quot; exclaimed Henry , when he perceived me weep with bitterness , &quot; are you always to be unhappy ?
we that heerd it got aout Fords an &apos; wagons an &apos; raounded up as many able bodied menfolks as we could git , at Corey &apos;s place , an &apos; come up here ter see what yew thought best ter dew .
it seems almost impossible that these evidences of guilt should have been accidentally left where found .
no murmur arose from its bed , and so gently it wandered along , that the pearly pebbles upon which we loved to gaze , far down within its bosom , stirred not at all , but lay in a motionless content , each in its own old station , shining on gloriously forever .
overhead , the sky was of a jetty black , and the stars were brilliantly visible .
&quot; Cassini frequently observed Saturn , Jupiter , and the fixed stars , when approaching the moon to occultation , to have their circular figure changed into an oval one ; and , in other occultations , he found no alteration of figure at all .
what a host of gloomy recollections will ever and anon be awakened in the mind of genius and imaginative contemplation , especially of a genius doomed to the everlasting and eternal , and continual , and , as one might say , the continued yes , the continued and continuous , bitter , harassing , disturbing , and , if I may be allowed the expression , the very disturbing influence of the serene , and godlike , and heavenly , and exalted , and elevated , and purifying effect of what may be rightly termed the most enviable , the most truly enviable nay the most benignly beautiful , the most deliciously ethereal , and , as it were , the most pretty if I may use so bold an expression thing pardon me , gentle reader in the world but I am always led away by my feelings .
he had killed himself when the horses screamed ... he , who had been born and lived all his life in that region , and knew what men whispered about the hills .
there were a few overhead bridges from house to house across the street .
the blood had hardly commenced flowing when I experienced a sensible relief , and by the time I had lost about half a moderate basin full , most of the worst symptoms had abandoned me entirely .
all day I had been wandering through the mystic groves of the hollow ; thinking thoughts I need not discuss , and conversing with things I need not name .
she stood before a large mirror she gazed on her reflected image ; her light and graceful dress , the jewels that studded her hair , and encircled her beauteous arms and neck , her small feet shod in satin , her profuse and glossy tresses , all were to her clouded brow and woe begone countenance like a gorgeous frame to a dark tempest pourtraying picture .
the eyes never moved , and the skin was too like wax .
the year after I first beheld the tomb , I stumbled upon a worm eaten translation of Plutarch &apos;s Lives in the book filled attic of my home .
by day I adhered to my desk , and at night , a pale student , I consumed the midnight oil .
she followed , and they disappeared .
my dear friend , what has happened ? &quot;
she was a young heiress of exquisite beauty who lived under the care of her guardian : from the moment they were seen together they appeared formed for each other .
it was hard going , and Armitage had to be helped more than once .
and these glimpses have been as often of the ways that were and the ways that might be , as of the ways that are ; for ocean is more ancient than the mountains , and freighted with the memories and the dreams of Time .
I caused myself to be carried to some meadows some miles distant from my cottage ; the grass was being mowed , and there was the scent of hay in the fields ; all the earth looked fresh and its inhabitants happy .
a scarf was particularly noticed .
through sunshine and through moonshine , I wrote .
they had planned to spread , and had brought up that which would help them , but now they must wait once more .
pitiless as you have been towards me , I now see compassion in your eyes ; let me seize the favourable moment and persuade you to promise what I so ardently desire . &quot;
with this gorilla Alfred Jermyn was singularly fascinated , and on many occasions the two would eye each other for long periods through the intervening bars .
thus revenged himself the Angel of the Odd .
I had , I realised , come face to face with rumour shadowed Innsmouth .
&quot; I am happy , &quot; said M. Waldman , &quot; to have gained a disciple ; and if your application equals your ability , I have no doubt of your success .
but that shape was not made of matter .
&quot; yes , Mis &apos; Corey , &quot; came Sally &apos;s tremulous voice over the party wire , &quot; Cha &apos;ncey he just come back a postin &apos; , and couldn &apos;t haff talk fer bein &apos; scairt He says Ol &apos; Whateley &apos;s haouse is all blowed up , with the timbers scattered raound like they &apos;d ben dynamite inside ; only the bottom floor ain &apos;t through , but is all covered with a kind o &apos; tar like stuff that smells awful an &apos; drips daown offen the aidges onto the graoun &apos; whar the side timbers is blown away .
the next year she herself died , and was laid to rest in the North Burial Ground beside her husband .
here every spot was distinct with associations now grown bitter .
the other or eastern end of the isle was whelmed in the blackest shade .
that which disquieted us most was the fact that the Sabbath was to be held at all .
the inhabitants of Kingsport say and think many things about the Terrible Old Man which generally keep him safe from the attention of gentlemen like Mr. Ricci and his colleagues , despite the almost certain fact that he hides a fortune of indefinite magnitude somewhere about his musty and venerable abode .
then we rolled into the large semicircular square across the river and drew up on the right hand side in front of a tall , cupola crowned building with remnants of yellow paint and with a half effaced sign proclaiming it to be the Gilman House .
he was a mechanic ; and , rendered unable to attend to the occupation which supplied his necessities , famine was added to his other miseries .
at last the end drew near , and Kalos discoursed of things beyond this life .
I had often , when at home , thought it hard to remain during my youth cooped up in one place and had longed to enter the world and take my station among other human beings .
this being the case , we can without difficulty conceive the possibility of so arranging a piece of mechanism , that upon starting In accordance with the data of the question to be solved , it should continue its movements regularly , progressively , and undeviatingly towards the required solution , since these movements , however complex , are never imagined to be otherwise than finite and determinate .
desirous of conferring with one who had studied the subject , he ordered me to accompany Asellius &apos; cohort and Balbutius had also come along to press his adverse advice , for he honestly believed that drastic military action would stir up a dangerous sentiment of unrest amongst the Vascones both tribal and settled .
perish so vile a thought The O forever ; He would persist in the O.
the old energy returns .
CHAPTER I. during this voyage , when on calm evenings we conversed on deck , watching the glancing of the waves and the changeful appearances of the sky , I discovered the total revolution that the disasters of Raymond had wrought in the mind of my sister .
I will not part from you in anger ; I owe you too much .
however , the Syracusans obtained after a while a very splendid statue in Athens , and the Tegeans consoled themselves by erecting in the agora a marble temple commemorating the gifts , virtues , and brotherly piety of Musides .
there was little I could add to this general exhortation ; for the plague , though in London , was not among us .
it was one evening at the close of the third lustrum of her life , and of the fourth of my own , that we sat , locked in each other &apos;s embrace , beneath the serpent like trees , and looked down within the water of the River of silence at our images therein .
during my second pause I began to detect a fresh distribution of the vague sounds ; and upon looking cautiously out from cover beheld a motor car darting across the open space , bound outward along Eliot Street , which there intersects both Babson and Lafayette .
then , after a long interval , a ringing in the ears ; then , after a lapse still longer , a prickling or tingling sensation in the extremities ; then a seemingly eternal period of pleasurable quiescence , during which the awakening feelings are struggling into thought ; then a brief re sinking into non entity ; then a sudden recovery .
they are persevering , ingenious , cunning , and thoroughly versed in the knowledge which their duties seem chiefly to demand .
&quot; oh , Justine forgive me for having for one moment distrusted you .
the night was tempestuous but my bribe was high and I easily procured a countryman .
correspondence with the Widener Library at Harvard , the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris , the British Museum , the University of Buenos Ayres , and the Library of Miskatonic University of Arkham had failed to get him the loan of a book he desperately wanted ; so at length he set out in person , shabby , dirty , bearded , and uncouth of dialect , to consult the copy at Miskatonic , which was the nearest to him geographically .
there would he ever say he once dwelt as a Prince , though here we knew him from his birth .
it was , he added , a very bad time of year for Arkham .
a week ago he burst open the lock which chains the door of the tomb perpetually ajar , and descended with a lantern into the murky depths .
as the good lady shewed me out of the building she made it clear that the pirate theory of the Marsh fortune was a popular one among the intelligent people of the region .
foreigners seldom settled there , and there was some discreetly veiled evidence that a number of Poles and Portuguese who had tried it had been scattered in a peculiarly drastic fashion .
from the end of the axis which is next the car , proceeds a shaft of steel , connecting the screw with the pinion of a piece of spring machinery fixed in the car .
his power and threats were not omitted in my calculations ; a creature who could exist in the ice caves of the glaciers and hide himself from pursuit among the ridges of inaccessible precipices was a being possessing faculties it would be vain to cope with .
yet do not , my gentle friend ; for , all childish and unwise as they are , they have become a part of me , and I dare not expect to shake them off .
their nourishment consisted entirely of the vegetables of their garden and the milk of one cow , which gave very little during the winter , when its masters could scarcely procure food to support it .
I did not arouse the sleeping nurse , but readjusted the slightly disarranged head bands of my telepathic &quot; radio &quot; , intent to catch any parting message the dreamer might have to deliver .
Corroborates the testimony of Muset in general .
I have made many observations lately upon the structure of the vessel .
the possessor of any appreciable amount of money might have been imagined to perform any one of a thousand things .
some few , to be sure , are led with a rope about the neck , but these are chiefly the lesser or timid species .
during my youthful days discontent never visited my mind , and if I was ever overcome by ennui , the sight of what is beautiful in nature or the study of what is excellent and sublime in the productions of man could always interest my heart and communicate elasticity to my spirits .
we may , therefore , assume that ; represents t , represents h , and represents e the last being now well confirmed .
stretching directly from the strange olden ruin on the far islet to the waning moon , my eyes seemed to trace a beam of faint quivering radiance having no reflection in the waters of the bog .
a sod covers his gentle form , and he knows no pain .
I thought of Woodville with gratitude and kindness and did not , I know not why , regret his departure with any bitterness .
give us , then , flowers in the hat corresponding to those worn by the missing girl , and we seek for nothing farther .
&quot; what do you mean by that , you scoundrel ?
the whippoorwills continued their irregular pulsation , and the men of Dunwich braced themselves tensely against some imponderable menace with which the atmosphere seemed surcharged .
Earl Sawyer , who tended the horse and cattle during Wilbur &apos;s absence , had developed a woefully acute case of nerves .
his pathologically sensitive ears began to listen for faint footfalls in the immemorially sealed loft overhead , and sometimes the illusion of such things was agonisingly realistic .
alas I prophesied truly , and failed only in one single circumstance , that in all the misery I imagined and dreaded , I did not conceive the hundredth part of the anguish I was destined to endure .
when it grew dark they travelled more swiftly , till soon they were flying uncannily as if in the air .
&quot; we will save them , Idris , &quot; I said , &quot; I will save them .
when I say that it resembles death , I mean that it resembles the ultimate life ; for when I am entranced the senses of my rudimental life are in abeyance , and I perceive external things directly , without organs , through a medium which I shall employ in the ultimate , unorganized life .
but the voice of the tavern keeper Arrests him .
every thing was accomplished with speed under my directions .
if I were not made a man of at once , it should not be the fault of himself , Mr. Crab .
but I believe that before I die I should tell what I know of the shall I say transition of Juan Romero .
he was apparently about thirty years old , with a sallow , olive complexion and fairly good features , but an abnormally high forehead .
as the scene grew clear he saw the ancient crone bend forward and extend the empty bowl across the table and unable to control his own motions , he reached far forward and took it in both hands , noticing as he did so its comparative lightness .
&quot; you do not understand , &quot; said Raymond .
the lunatics , every now and then , get up a howl in concert ; one starting another , as is sometimes the case with a bevy of dogs at night .
but here no hedge of bayonets opposed itself , no death dealing artillery , no formidable array of brave soldiers the unguarded walls afforded easy entrance the vacant palaces luxurious dwellings ; but above the dome of St. Sophia the superstitious Greek saw Pestilence , and shrunk in trepidation from her influence .
he possessed many himself , which he designed to present to the Republic ; and , as the edifice was to be the great ornament of his Protectorship , he was very fastidious in his choice of the plan on which it would be built .
some weeks before this period I had procured a sledge and dogs and thus traversed the snows with inconceivable speed .
at one end of that tomb , its curious roots displacing the time stained blocks of Pentelic marble , grows an unnaturally large olive tree of oddly repellent shape ; so like to some grotesque man , or death distorted body of a man , that the country folk fear to pass it at night when the moon shines faintly through the crooked boughs .
the vanity of the old gossip was raised by her commission , which , after all , she did not understand , since she had no suspicion , even now that Evadne &apos;s visitor was Lord Raymond .
here is a corpse without weight attached .
then he came to the strange cave in the forest slope , the dreaded &quot; snake den &quot; which country folk shunned , and away from which Benijah had warned him again and again .
soon after , Raymond arrived .
something was scrawled there in pencil in an awful , blind hand on a piece of paper hideously smeared as though by the very claws that traced the hurried last words .
but just at that time I inherited the fortune of my cousin , and my thoughts were turned into the channel of their earlier bent .
this , I thought , would be possible owing to the rickety nature of the house and its fixtures ; but I realised I could not do it noiselessly .
the first of those sorrows which are sent to wean us from the earth had visited her , and its dimming influence quenched her dearest smiles .
&quot; I thank you , &quot; replied I ; &quot; listen , therefore , to the deposition that I have to make .
as Mr. Kirwin said this , notwithstanding the agitation I endured on this retrospect of my sufferings , I also felt considerable surprise at the knowledge he seemed to possess concerning me .
here was a nocturnal suicide in London , where a lone sleeper had leaped from a window after a shocking cry .
my uncle &apos;s carefully compiled record began with the building of the structure in , and followed the theme with an unusual amount of detail .
Adrian was more benign , more considerate .
but when at last it was safe in his room he found the combination of black letter and debased idiom too much for his powers as a linguist , and reluctantly called on his strange , frightened friend for help with the twisted , mediaeval Latin .
to morrow we will speak of this .
he arose in a terrible passion , slouched his funnel down over his eyes , swore a vast oath , uttered a threat of some character which I did not precisely comprehend , and finally made me a low bow and departed , wishing me , in the language of the archbishop in Gil Blas , &quot; beaucoup de bonheur et un peu plus de bon sens . &quot;
and Kuranes reigned thereafter over Ooth Nargai and all the neighbouring regions of dream , and held his court alternately in Celephaïs and in the cloud fashioned Serannian .
no human step was heard , nor human form discerned .
I had put together two links of a great chain .
though he did not inherit the madness which was feared by some , he was densely stupid and given to brief periods of uncontrollable violence .
but his curiosity was undeterred .
in the first place , of course , as the opening word was &apos; So , &apos; he made a plunge into the capital S hole and came out in triumph with a capital S. elated by this success , he immediately threw himself upon the little o box with a blindfold impetuosity but who shall describe his horror when his fingers came up without the anticipated letter in their clutch ?
I first untied one of them , a beautiful gray mottled pigeon , and placed him upon the rim of the wicker work .
she was now three and twenty , in the pride of womanhood , fulfilling the precious duties of wife and mother , possessed of all her heart had ever coveted .
Elwood trembled , afraid even to speculate on what new form his friend &apos;s sleep walking had taken .
it was not its length nor its breadth , but its height ah , that was appalling There was no ceiling certainly none but a dense whirling mass of fiery colored clouds .
his views , which were widely ridiculed by the faculty and his fellow students , hinged on the essentially mechanistic nature of life ; and concerned means for operating the organic machinery of mankind by calculated chemical action after the failure of natural processes .
the windows are boarded up , but I like that all the better , since I don &apos;t want daylight for what I do .
this creature fastened itself upon a small artery in the right temple .
in its wide halls many multitudes assemble , and here hang the trophies of the ages .
should I avoid claiming a property of so great value , which it is known that I possess , I will render the animal at least , liable to suspicion .
so I left them , and hurried on .
with his dreams fading under the ridicule of the age he could not believe in anything , but the love of harmony kept him close to the ways of his race and station .
his plans were bold and fiery , and his conceptions glowed with barbaric lustre .
my father , who visits me frequently , declares that at no time did I pass the chained portal , and swears that the rusted padlock had not been touched for fifty years when he examined it .
the appearance of the ocean , in the space between the more distant island and the shore , had something very unusual about it .
around the base was an inscription in characters which neither St. John nor I could identify ; and on the bottom , like a maker &apos;s seal , was graven a grotesque and formidable skull .
and what more obvious , and more effectual method could there be of impressing the spectators with this desired idea , than a positive and explicit declaration to that effect ?
I have been to Thraa , Ilarnek , and Kadatheron on the winding river Ai , and have dwelt long in Olathoë in the land of Lomar .
and now at the dead hour of the night , amid the dreadful silence of that old house , so strange a noise as this excited me to uncontrollable terror .
there were two or three astronomers , of secondary note , who resolutely maintained that a contact was inevitable .
Charlemagne took Ibid &apos;s skull to his capital at Aix , soon afterward presenting it to his Saxon teacher Alcuin , upon whose death in it was sent to Alcuin &apos;s kinsfolk in England .
I confessed , that I might obtain absolution ; but now that falsehood lies heavier at my heart than all my other sins .
I , who longed beyond words , to restore her to the happiness it was still in her power to enjoy , watched with anxiety the result of these internal proceedings .
are you not young , and fair , and good ?
most assuredly I had little time given for reflection .
under such circumstances , she positively declined any communication with them . &quot;
the more Gilman looked at them , the more peculiar they seemed ; for in addition to those he could recognise as his there were some smaller , almost round markings such as the legs of a large chair or table might make , except that most of them tended to be divided into halves .
but at this point our mathematicians paused .
I have not slept since quitting Wheal vor , but can stand it no longer , and must take a nap .
in this direction I was able to obtain an unobstructed view , from the manner in which the smack hung on the inclined surface of the pool .
Whipple , who burnt His Majesty &apos;s armed schooner Gaspee in had voted in the Legislature on May , , for the independence of the Rhode Island colony .
nor is it any argument against bulk being an object with God , that space itself is infinite ; for there may be an infinity of matter to fill it .
I hesitated before I answered , when Frankenstein , who had at first been silent , and indeed appeared hardly to have force enough to attend , now roused himself ; his eyes sparkled , and his cheeks flushed with momentary vigour .
I had long ceased to struggle or to move , and remained sitting rigidly upon the ottoman , a helpless prey to a whirl of violent emotions , of which extreme awe was perhaps the least terrible , the least consuming .
as some of the figures turned to look in my direction I was transfixed with fright , yet managed to preserve the casual , shambling gait I had assumed .
the result of law violate is imperfection , wrong , positive pain .
but I must enter into some account of this darling of fame this favourite of the wonder loving world .
the flapping to of the shutter would naturally have been attributed to the wind .
meanwhile my father , forgotten , could not forget .
he stood under the arcade of the town hall of Windsor , and from this elevation harangued a trembling crowd .
in short there was no fine writing like this .
very soon , too , he must see the specialist .
the difficulty , nevertheless , was but trivial ; although , in the disorder of my fancy , it seemed at first insuperable .
on account of a tattling world ; for the sake of my of our child , I would remain by you , Raymond , share your fortunes , partake your counsel .
the plague came , and the inhabitants of her village died .
&quot; you hard headed , dunder headed , obstinate , rusty , crusty , musty , fusty , old savage &quot; said I , in fancy , one afternoon , to my grand uncle Rumgudgeon shaking my fist at him in imagination .
these visions faded when I perused , for the first time , those poets whose effusions entranced my soul and lifted it to heaven .
the sound grew louder as we entered a rising gap in the hills , steep wooded banks enclosing us narrowly on either side , and displaying curiously fantastic tree trunks in the light of our bobbing torches .
as once before , the hideous crone seized Gilman by the shoulders , yanking him out of bed and into empty space .
these facts are well known to many of our citizens .
but the old man decidedly refused , thinking himself bound in honour to my friend , who , when he found the father inexorable , quitted his country , nor returned until he heard that his former mistress was married according to her inclinations .
health officials traced the smell to the closed spaces above and beside the eastern garret room , and agreed that the number of dead rats must be enormous .
perhaps , after all , it was rather a desire than an actual belief ; but do you know that Jupiter &apos;s silly words , about the bug being of solid gold , had a remarkable effect upon my fancy ?
within , was the peace as of innocence , reckless blindless , deluding joy , hope , whose still anchor rested on placid but unconstant water .
I sought him in the house , in the park , and then in the fields and the woods , but I could not find him .
having made fair copies of these poems &apos; I signed every one of them &quot; Oppodeldoc , &quot; a fine sonorous name , and , doing each up nicely in a separate envelope , I despatched one to each of the four principal Magazines , with a request for speedy insertion and prompt pay .
the Frenchman supposes it the voice of a Spaniard , and &apos; might have distinguished some words had he been acquainted with the Spanish.&apos;
a new light seemed to dawn upon my mind , and bounding with joy , I communicated my discovery to my father .
in what fitting terms of wonder and delight , in what choice expression and soft flow of language , can I usher in the loveliest , wisest , best ?
&quot; by degrees I made a discovery of still greater moment .
it was the pleasure I took in literature , the discipline of mind I found arise from it , that made me eager to lead Perdita to the same pursuits .
but its owner or employer how happened he , at so early a period as Tuesday morning , to be informed , without the agency of advertisement , of the locality of the boat taken up on Monday , unless we imagine some connexion with the navy some personal permanent connexion leading to cognizance of its minute in interests its petty local news ?
I proceeded to use the glass .
his age was unknown , since among his kind neither family records nor permanent family ties exist ; but from the baldness of his head in front , and from the decayed condition of his teeth , the head surgeon wrote him down as a man of about forty .
the keepers and kept were soon made to exchange places .
he invited some of his college friends to see him but their frivolity disgusted him .
this Virgilian diversion , together with the spectral thoughts incident to All Hallows &apos; Eve with its Witch Sabbaths on the hills , produced in me last Monday night a Roman dream of such supernal clearness and vividness , and such titanic adumbrations of hidden horror , that I verily believe I shall some day employ it in fiction .
we need say nothing of their sublimity , or their pathos : it is impossible to peruse them without tears .
as Hermann went out , the Baron whispered me that I should follow him and make an offer of my services .
an open window shewed black and gaping in the moonlight .
it will be seen that , in bringing about such result , he secures all the advantages of interest or design , while relieving his work of all the harshness and technicality of Art .
when scorn did not inspire his mirth , when it was genuine gaiety that painted his features with a joyous expression , his beauty became super eminent , divine .
I have spoken of the learning of Ligeia : it was immense such as I have never known in woman .
the day was fair , the wind favourable ; all smiled on our nuptial embarkation .
I met several funerals ; they were slenderly attended by mourners , and were regarded by the spectators as omens of direst import .
he might have measured six feet and a half , and an habitual stoop in the shoulders seemed to have been the necessary consequence of an altitude so enormous .
here is one of your favorite romances .
the Madness from the Sea .
the sea was calm and the vessel moved gently onwards , I sat upon deck under the open canopy of heaven and methought I was an altered creature .
he called himself &quot; psychically hypersensitive &quot; , but the staid folk of the ancient commercial city dismissed him as merely &quot; queer &quot; .
children had been taken that way every year ever since she could remember .
my heart had long been with them ; and I felt sick with the hope and delight of seeing them again .
the probability of the one assumed proving the correct one is then as unity to infinity .
it was a species of table land , near the summit of an almost inaccessible hill , densely wooded from base to pinnacle , and interspersed with huge crags that appeared to lie loosely upon the soil , and in many cases were prevented from precipitating themselves into the valleys below , merely by the support of the trees against which they reclined .
here I found what seemed much like an alchemist &apos;s laboratory .
some there were , indeed , who suggested a too haughty idea of self consequence and dignity .
I was with him when he studied the nitrous , dripping walls laid bare by the spades and mattocks of the men , and was prepared for the gruesome thrill which would attend the uncovering of centuried grave secrets ; but for the first time West &apos;s new timidity conquered his natural curiosity , and he betrayed his degenerating fibre by ordering the masonry left intact and plastered over .
my room was on the fifth story ; the only inhabited room there , since the house was almost empty .
&quot; I do not ask your pity ; you must and do abhor me : but pardon me , Mathilda , and let not your thoughts follow me in my banishment with unrelenting anger .
at length I wandered towards these mountains , and have ranged through their immense recesses , consumed by a burning passion which you alone can gratify .
what can a parent have more at heart than the good opinion of his child ?
I knew that the fit was over .
his is none of that confidence which the presence of numbers inevitably inspires .
he scorns to diddle for the mere sake of the diddle .
our gunwhale is almost in the water now . &quot;
the stars still shone brightly when I awoke , and Taurus high in the southern heaven shewed that it was midnight .
we have attained the idea either of a fatal accident under the roof of Madame Deluc , or of a murder perpetrated , in the thicket at the Barrière du Roule , by a lover , or at least by an intimate and secret associate of the deceased .
sometimes a nervous trembling , a sharp dissonance of voice , and momentary fits of absence revealed to Perdita the violence he did himself ; but we , intent on our plans , observed only his ready laugh , his joke intruded on all occasions , the flow of his spirits which seemed incapable of ebb .
&quot; Noodle &quot; said the sixth .
having thus scrutinized me for perhaps a quarter of an hour , the fair object of my passion addressed the gentleman who attended her , and while she spoke , I saw distinctly , by the glances of both , that the conversation had reference to myself .
William and Justine were assassinated , and the murderer escapes ; he walks about the world free , and perhaps respected .
Txld yxu sx , yxu knxw .
the scene of the morning , and my visit to the dead , which had been spread abroad , had alarmed the country people , so they had become fit instruments to be played upon by a maniac .
least of all had the more than feudal magnificence , thus discovered , a tendency to allay the irritable feelings of the less ancient and less wealthy Berlifitzings .
he was about to die My blood froze at the thought : a sickening feeling of horror came over me that allowed not of tears .
to encourage you in the beginning of things , I will allow you a garret ; pen , ink and paper ; a rhyming Dictionary ; and a copy of the &apos; Gad Fly . &apos; I suppose you would scarcely demand any more . &quot;
apart from the editorial matter , the most valuable paper , nevertheless , is , we think , a poetical gem by &apos; Snob , on the &apos; Oil of Bob &apos; but our readers must not suppose from the title of this incomparable bijou , that it bears any similitude to some balderdash on the same subject by a certain contemptible individual whose name is unmentionable to ears polite .
it was morning , I remember , when I thus awoke to understanding ; I had forgotten the particulars of what had happened and only felt as if some great misfortune had suddenly overwhelmed me ; but when I looked around and saw the barred windows and the squalidness of the room in which I was , all flashed across my memory and I groaned bitterly .
and because they did not like the grey sculptured monoliths of Ib they cast these also into the lake ; wondering from the greatness of the labour how ever the stones were brought from afar , as they must have been , since there is naught like them in all the land of Mnar or in the lands adjacent .
any marked rise in temperature might , if prolonged , affect him fatally ; and the frigidity of his habitation some or degrees Fahrenheit was maintained by an absorption system of ammonia cooling , the gasoline engine of whose pumps I had often heard in my own room below .
we had no reason to think the site of Windsor Castle peculiarly healthy , for many other families had expired beneath its roof ; we lived therefore without any particular precaution ; but we lived , it seemed , in safety .
the darkness was total .
&quot; did ever anybody hear the like ?
truth arose in the purity of her strength and exceeding majesty , and the wise bowed down and adored .
there can be little question that most of the marvellous rumors afloat about this affair are pure inventions , entitled to about as much credit as the story of Aladdin &apos;s lamp ; and yet , in a case of this kind , as in the case of the discoveries in California , it is clear that the truth may be stranger than fiction .
I cannot intrigue , or work a tortuous path through the labyrinth of men &apos;s vices and passions ; but I can bring patience , and sympathy , and such aid as art affords , to the bed of disease ; I can raise from earth the miserable orphan , and awaken to new hopes the shut heart of the mourner .
at one time the moon , which had before been clear , was suddenly overspread by a thick cloud , and I took advantage of the moment of darkness and cast my basket into the sea ; I listened to the gurgling sound as it sank and then sailed away from the spot .
all of what man has termed sense was merged in the sole consciousness of entity , and in the one abiding sentiment of duration .
at first it was but a path trodden by bearers of water from the woodland spring to the cluster of houses by the beach .
we called each other familiarly by the name of cousin .
no two persons could be more opposite than Adrian and he .
you stepped upon one of the loose fragments , slipped , slightly strained your ankle , appeared vexed or sulky , muttered a few words , turned to look at the pile , and then proceeded in silence .
the shrill voice was that of a foreigner .
now let the antagonist move a piece , and let the corresponding move be made by Maelzel , as usual , upon the board of the Automaton .
then one day Musides spoke of the illness of Kalos , after which none marvelled again at his sadness , since the sculptors &apos; attachment was known to be deep and sacred .
two or three men shut their eyes , but Curtis Whateley snatched back the telescope and strained his vision to the utmost .
I am old , very old , and it is Time for my afternoon nap .
our curiosity and enthusiasm were excited by this circumstance , and we insisted upon attempting the passage .
a poet and a traveller , who came with the mighty crowd that sought the scene , tell odd stories .
day and night the wind right aft , gave steady impulse to our keel nor did rough gale , or treacherous sand , or destructive rock interpose an obstacle between my sister and the land which was to restore her to her first beloved , Her dear heart &apos;s confessor a heart within that heart .
he had , they insisted , been struck by lightning the autumn before ; and now lay buried behind the neglected sunken gardens .
again I could make one of the smiling hunters that go coursing after bubles that break to nothing when caught , and then after a new one with brighter colours ; my hope also had proved a buble , but it had been so lovely , so adorned that I saw none that could attract me after it ; besides I was wearied with the pursuit , nearly dead with weariness .
so I watched the tide go out under that sinking moon , and saw gleaming the spires , the towers , and the roofs of that dead , dripping city .
I put forward my arm , and shuddered to find that I had fallen at the very brink of a circular pit , whose extent , of course , I had no means of ascertaining at the moment .
it has veered , however , very considerably to the north ; and now , at sundown , we are holding our course due west , principally by the screw and rudder , which answer their purposes to admiration .
the weight of the insect was very remarkable , and , taking all things into consideration , I could hardly blame Jupiter for his opinion respecting it ; but what to make of Legrand &apos;s concordance with that opinion , I could not , for the life of me , tell .
Barry &apos;s motor had met me at the Ballylough station , for Kilderry is off the railway .
I stand before its vanquished walls , and dare not call myself a conqueror .
I was unable to pursue the train of thought ; a thousand feelings pressed upon me , and I wept bitterly .
take my girl with you ; wean her from sights and thoughts of sorrow ; let infantine hilarity revisit her heart , and animate her eyes ; so could it never be , were she near me ; it is far better for all of you that you should never see me again .
it was evident that , in the morning , I should behold the rising luminary many hours at least before the citizens of Rotterdam , in spite of their situation so much farther to the eastward , and thus , day after day , in proportion to the height ascended , would I enjoy the light of the sun for a longer and a longer period .
he would speak to the landlord about them .
I neither pretend to protect nor govern an hospital such will England quickly become . &quot;
the matters of which man is cognizant , escape the senses in gradation .
I saw all these things and in a vacant manner noted them in my mind while I endeavoured to arrange my thoughts in fitting order for my attempt .
I have already more than once spoken of the disgusting air of patronage which he assumed toward me , and of his frequent officious interference with my will .
hope , glory , love , and blameless ambition are my guides , and my soul knows no dread .
behold me in a new capacity .
up this I hurried until now I had not seen a vestige of man .
once man was a favourite of the Creator , as the royal psalmist sang , &quot; God had made him a little lower than the angels , and had crowned him with glory and honour .
in the meantime I worked up the twine into a net work of sufficient dimensions ; rigged it with a hoop and the necessary cords ; bought a quadrant , a compass , a spy glass , a common barometer with some important modifications , and two astronomical instruments not so generally known .
change succeeded to change ; the entire history did not reach me ; for Adrian had ceased to write , and Perdita was a laconic correspondent .
I thought that the balmy air and the lovely face of Nature might aid me in inspiring him with mild sensations , and give him gentle feelings of peace and love preparatory to the confidence I determined to win from him .
troops of dogs , deserted of their masters , passed us ; and now and then a horse , unbridled and unsaddled , trotted towards us , and tried to attract the attention of those which we rode , as if to allure them to seek like liberty .
my hero worship , coupled with the fact that people generally were commencing to have less and less to do with him , made him get very confidential with me ; and one evening he hinted that if I were fairly close mouthed and none too squeamish , he might shew me something rather unusual something a bit stronger than anything he had in the house .
they suited me , in fact , to a T. The clergyman , who merely pretended to tie the fatal knot , was a boon companion of Talbot &apos;s , and no priest .
a panorama more deplorably desolate no human imagination can conceive .
little did I then expect the calamity that was in a few moments to overwhelm me and extinguish in horror and despair all fear of ignominy or death .
with the increase of the chronic disease which had thus , apparently , taken too sure hold upon her constitution to be eradicated by human means , I could not fail to observe a similar increase in the nervous irritation of her temperament , and in her excitability by trivial causes of fear .
but the spells would soon pass , and once more Old Bugs would resume his eternal floor scrubbing and cuspidor cleaning .
this unkemptness , however , made him offensive despite his face and figure .
cool , now cool Do be cool , you fool None of your crowing , old cock Don &apos;t frown so don &apos;t Don &apos;t hollo , nor howl nor growl , nor bow wow wow Good Lord , John , how you do look told you so , you know but stop rolling your goose of an old poll about so , and go and drown your sorrows in a bowl &apos; exhausted , very naturally , by so stupendous an effort , the great Touch and go could attend to nothing farther that night .
in one corner was an immense pile of a shining yellow metal that sparkled gorgeously in the light of the torch .
what he wrote was laughed at by those to whom he shewed it , so that after a time he kept his writings to himself , and finally ceased to write .
my brain was sore dazed with excitement and fatigue , for I had not slept in many days ; yet was my purpose firm , for I loved my native land of Lomar , and the marble city of Olathoë that lies betwixt the peaks of Noton and Kadiphonek .
I do not think that what I read in these books or saw in these fields and groves was exactly what other boys read and saw there ; but of this I must say little , since detailed speech would but confirm those cruel slanders upon my intellect which I sometimes overhear from the whispers of the stealthy attendants around me .
his manners grew wild ; he was sometimes ferocious , sometimes absorbed in speechless melancholy .
how he made it what it was and why with some particulars of Mr. Landor himself may , possibly form the subject of another article .
this spirit we could never lose ; and it was to diffuse this concentrated spirit of birth , that the new law was to be brought forward .
heard the voices in contention .
but L &apos;Etoile was again over hasty .
he was also pursuing an object he had long had in view .
her gown was torn , bound round her , and tied ; and by that the body was carried as a bundle .
can the wretch , led to the scaffold , who when he lays his head on the block , marks the double shadow of himself and the executioner , whose uplifted arm bears the axe , hope ?
there might be a class of beings , human once , but now to humanity invisible , for whose scrutiny and for whose refined appreciation of the beautiful , more especially than for our own , had been set in order by God the great landscape garden of the whole earth .
it was moonlight , and he had stolen out into the fragrant summer night , through the gardens , down the terraces , past the great oaks of the park , and along the long white road to the village .
an &apos; why &apos;d the new church parsons fellers as used to be sailors wear them queer robes an &apos; cover theirselves with them gold like things Obed brung ?
this was the secret law of his life he loved and was beloved .
I loved my brothers , Elizabeth , and Clerval ; these were &quot; old familiar faces , &quot; but I believed myself totally unfitted for the company of strangers .
I had no wish to gaze abroad , for I wanted to sleep ; but the flutes tormented me , and I had to do or see something .
he kissed her brow but the wayward girl , half sorry at his triumph , agitated by swift change of thought , hid her face in his bosom and wept .
it was a wall , seemingly of stone masonry very smooth , slimy , and cold .
on the night of the fourth day , the stables of the castle Berlifitzing were discovered to be on fire ; and the unanimous opinion of the neighborhood added the crime of the incendiary to the already hideous list of the Baron &apos;s misdemeanors and enormities .
my agitation was extreme ; for I had now little doubt of soon reaching the end of my perilous voyage .
she has said nothing but what I knew before though this is confirmation .
instances of peculiar intelligence in the demeanor of a noble and high spirited horse are not to be supposed capable of exciting unreasonable attention especially among men who , daily trained to the labors of the chase , might appear well acquainted with the sagacity of a horse but there were certain circumstances which intruded themselves per force upon the most skeptical and phlegmatic ; and it is said there were times when the animal caused the gaping crowd who stood around to recoil in horror from the deep and impressive meaning of his terrible stamp times when the young Metzengerstein turned pale and shrunk away from the rapid and searching expression of his earnest and human looking eye .
they are only temporary pauses in the incomprehensible mechanism .
it is at war with the sentiment and with the sense of seclusion the sentiment and sense which we seek to humor in &apos; retiring to the country.&apos;
for this I resolved to have my revenge .
but the only tangible clue to Old Bugs &apos; past was a faded photograph which he constantly carried about with him the photograph of a young woman of noble and beautiful features .
as the sun went down , the gale encreased ; the ship seemed to feel her danger , she was now completely water logged , and presented other indications of settling before she went down .
to my surprise , what he read proved to be a most horribly absurd account of a duel between two baboons .
it has turned out as I have been anticipating .
that was the first I ever heard of shadowed Innsmouth .
let us suppose only , that the soul of the man of to day is upon the verge of some stupendous psychal discoveries .
the embrowning woods , and swollen rivers , the evening mists , and morning frosts , were welcomed with gratitude .
Sawyer was not a lovable man , and many stories were told of his almost inhuman vindictiveness and tenacious memory for wrongs real or fancied .
I checked her ; and she submitted to my rule .
thick and majestic they sailed , slowly and deliberately onward ; ranging themselves round the peak high above the watchers , and hiding the moon and the summit from view .
I envied them , but felt how impossible it was to imbibe the same feeling , now that years had multiplied my ties in the world .
methought above the portico was engraved the Hic jacet of England .
his family did not like him to work in Innsmouth , but the chain had transferred him there and he did not wish to give up his job .
after that I tried to sleep ; and failing , passed the hours in reading and in the composition of inane verses to counteract my mood .
it was indeed but a passing trance , that only made me feel with renewed acuteness so soon as , the unnatural stimulus ceasing to operate , I had returned to my old habits .
beyond the bridge were narrow cobbled streets with rails ; and then came the ascent , at first gradual , but incredibly steep as the Rue d &apos;Auseil was reached .
no , there had been no one on the stairs after midnight though just before midnight he had heard faint footfalls in the garret , and cautiously descending steps he did not like .
her dress is of orange colored linsey woolsey , made very full behind and very short in the waist and indeed very short in other respects , not reaching below the middle of her leg .
they were not however the less astonished and dismayed when it appeared among themselves .
nor can I. &quot; &apos; And furthermore it is exceedingly improbable , &apos; continues our journal , &apos; that any villains who had committed such a murder as is here supposed , would have thrown the body in without weight to sink it , when such a precaution could have so easily been taken.&apos;
but this was a question which , I am willing to confess , occasioned me no little trouble in its solution .
her pride and blameless ambition was to create smiles in all around her , and to shed repose on the fragile existence of her brother .
but as I pass the barrier in Time &apos;s path , formed by the death of my beloved , and proceed with the second era of my existence , I feel that a shadow gathers over my brain , and I mistrust the perfect sanity of the record .
Madame Joyeuse was a more sensible person , as you know .
the remembrance haunts me like a crime I know that if I were to endeavour to relate it my tale would at length remain unfinished .
the fact is , some trivial discrepancy did exist , just then , between what I said and what I had not the courage to say between what I did and what I had half a mind to do .
from my infancy I was imbued with high hopes and a lofty ambition ; but how am I sunk Oh My friend , if you had known me as I once was , you would not recognize me in this state of degradation .
there were perhaps ten people visible , and four or five automobiles and motor trucks stood scattered about .
it was voodoo , apparently , but voodoo of a more terrible sort than they had ever known ; and some of their women and children had disappeared since the malevolent tom tom had begun its incessant beating far within the black haunted woods where no dweller ventured .
to the watch tower of Thapnen he sent me , there to serve as the eyes of our army .
Kuranes came very suddenly upon his old world of childhood .
an &apos; when the swishin &apos; saound got very fur off on the rud towards Wizard Whateley &apos;s an &apos; Sentinel Hill Luther he had the guts ter step up whar he &apos;d heerd it furst an &apos; look at the graound .
Legrasse dashed swamp water on the face of the fainting man , and all stood trembling and nearly hypnotised with horror .
and may it not thus happen that many far greater than Milton , have contentedly remained &quot; mute and inglorious ? &quot;
in improves the tone of the thing , for business purposes , more than you can imagine .
they were mostly shiny and slippery , but the ridges of their backs were scaly .
I do wrong in weeping now , and greater wrong in giving words to my grief .
he sat up much longer , conversing with his father , and by the frequent repetition of her name I conjectured that their lovely guest was the subject of their conversation .
could they turn from their door one , however monstrous , who solicited their compassion and friendship ?
even in the Elysian fields , Virgil describes the souls of the happy as eager to drink of the wave which was to restore them to this mortal coil .
even I am in love with this last home of Raymond &apos;s ; nevertheless we must quit it . &quot;
some , even , were up side down ; and there were none of them which were not , in some measure , injured in regard to effect , by this latter species of accident , when it occurred ; with the exception of Mr. Lewis Clarke &apos;s paragraphs , which were so vigorous , and altogether stout , that they seemed not particularly disconcerted by any extreme of position , but looked equally happy and satisfactory , whether on their heads , or on their heels .
that my opinions , however , are not the opinions to be expected from a gentleman , is an observation so directly offensive as to allow me but one line of conduct .
I did not doubt but that the monster followed me and would discover himself to me when I should have finished , that he might receive his companion .
also give some o &apos; the carved knick knacks they made .
if distressing monosyllable what world of mystery , and meaning , and doubt , and uncertainty is there involved in thy two letters I entered the ominous archway I entered ; and , without injury to my orange colored auriculas , I passed beneath the portal , and emerged within the vestibule .
we spoke no words during the rest of that sweet day , and our words even upon the morrow were tremulous and few .
when Armitage inadvertently took a wrong direction , Joe Osborn warned him and walked ahead to shew the right one .
all this passed so suddenly , that I with difficulty reined in my horse , so that it should not trample on the prostrate being .
Mr. Crab looked at me musingly for some moments , and then answered : &quot; I think , Mr. Bob , that what you propose would answer sufficiently well indeed remarkably well that is to say , as far as it went but barbers are exceedingly hard to cut , and I think , upon the whole , that , having performed upon Thomas Bob the operations you suggest , it would be advisable to blacken , with your fists , both his eyes , very carefully and thoroughly , to prevent his ever seeing you again in fashionable promenades .
knots of politicians were assembled with anxious brows and loud or deep voices .
Raymond talked of his new buildings ; of his plan for an establishment for the better education of the poor ; as usual Adrian and he entered into argument , and the time slipped away unperceived .
they would not even look at the end .
should even the banks break , he cares nothing about it .
then on the fifth night , which was the night of the full moon , Barzai saw some dense clouds far to the north , and stayed up with Atal to watch them draw near .
I had a big stick ready cut for to gib him deuced good beating when he did come but Ise sich a fool dat I hadn &apos;t de heart arter all he look so berry poorly . &quot;
it was still very dark when I reached the grating which I tried carefully and found unlocked , but which I did not open for fear of falling from the amazing height to which I had climbed .
its first propagator was one Mudler .
he came of a line where tradition ran strong , and his memories of chantings in the great stone circles were not altogether connected with Wilbur and his grandfather .
they were hard to get , and one awful day he had secured his specimen while it was still alive and vigorous .
&quot; my own examination was somewhat more particular , and was so for the reason I have just given because here it was , I knew , that all apparent impossibilities must be proved to be not such in reality .
the pain of the primitive life of Earth , is the sole basis of the bliss of the ultimate life in Heaven .
the city looked dark to the south , while numerous lights along the near shores , and the beautiful aspect of the banks reposing in placid night , the waters keenly reflecting the heavenly lights , gave to this beauteous river a dower of loveliness that might have characterized a retreat in Paradise .
fortunately for me those circumstances were of rare occurrence that obliged me to visit London , and my duties were confined to the rural district which our lofty castle overlooked ; and here labour stood in the place of pastime , to occupy such of the country people as were sufficiently exempt from sorrow or disease .
of the events which took place at the Norton Mine on October th and th , , I have no desire to speak .
this hovel however , joined a cottage of a neat and pleasant appearance , but after my late dearly bought experience , I dared not enter it .
with this object in view , it became necessary to attach something like a rope to one of the extremities .
at half past five o &apos;clock we proceeded to the House .
Woodville for ever tried to lead me to the contemplation of what is beautiful and happy in the world .
the marks of violence are too obvious .
done up , by Jove Three Sundays all in a row I &apos;ll go , and take Dubble L. Dee &apos;s opinion upon that . &quot;
&quot; begone I will not hear you .
was positive that it was not a woman &apos;s voice .
&quot; but there is a boundary to their realm the boundary of the dark , horrible , lofty forest .
&quot; I endeavoured to crush these fears and to fortify myself for the trial which in a few months I resolved to undergo ; and sometimes I allowed my thoughts , unchecked by reason , to ramble in the fields of Paradise , and dared to fancy amiable and lovely creatures sympathizing with my feelings and cheering my gloom ; their angelic countenances breathed smiles of consolation .
after that he killed the time at a cheap cinema show , seeing the inane performance over and over again without paying any attention to it .
the wreck seemed to have been there for a very great while ; for the resemblance to boat timbers could scarcely be traced .
I had used this history as an opiate ; while it described my beloved friends , fresh with life and glowing with hope , active assistants on the scene , I was soothed ; there will be a more melancholy pleasure in painting the end of all .
there was Theologos Theology .
it is true that I have thought more and that my daydreams are more extended and magnificent , but they want as the painters call it keeping ; and I greatly need a friend who would have sense enough not to despise me as romantic , and affection enough for me to endeavour to regulate my mind .
see it towers above all others , and lies to the eastward of what I take to be the royal palace . &quot;
in the multiplied objects of the external world I had no thoughts but for the teeth .
upon this point , however , I feel a degree of proud satisfaction in permitting the reader to judge for himself .
his countenance was , as usual , cadaverously wan but , moreover , there was a species of mad hilarity in his eyes an evidently restrained hysteria in his whole demeanor .
why then , as I perused them , did the hairs of my head erect themselves on end , and the blood of my body become congealed within my veins ?
Joe Mazurewicz was whining unintelligible prayers , and Gilman hastened up to his own garret chamber without pausing to see if Elwood was in .
this legend had the effect of dispelling my keenest impatience to enter the vault , for it made me feel that the time was not yet ripe .
indeed , it is very easily calculated by means of spherical geometry , what a great extent of the earth &apos;s area I beheld .
if we cannot understand him in his objective creatures , how then in his substantive moods and phases of creation ?
hope beckons and sorrow urges us , the heart beats high with expectation , and this eager desire of change must be an omen of success .
who can be more solitary even in a crowd than one whose history and the never ending feelings and remembrances arising from it is sic known to no living soul .
&quot; what I mean to say is , that it is the mingled epigram and melodrame of the idea , that Marie Rogêt still lives , rather than any true plausibility in this idea , which have suggested it to L &apos;Etoile , and secured it a favorable reception with the public .
Adrian and Ryland were still in earnest discussion .
in later days this insight grew more clear , as the intimacy which had at first permitted it became more close ; and when , after three years of the character of the Baron Ritzner von Jung .
if such change be painful from lighter causes , it weighed with intolerable heaviness from the knowledge that the earth &apos;s desolator had at last , even as an arch fiend , lightly over leaped the boundaries our precautions raised , and at once enthroned himself in the full and beating heart of our country .
to be sure , I had heard of the student who , to prevent his falling asleep over his books , held in one hand a ball of copper , the din of whose descent into a basin of the same metal on the floor beside his chair , served effectually to startle him up , if , at any moment , he should be overcome with drowsiness .
it was very dark , but the city &apos;s lights always burned , and I expected to see them there amidst the rain and wind .
in the light of our dark lanterns we carefully covered it with leaves and dead vines , fairly certain that the police would never find it in a forest so dim and dense .
with the aid of this you may either get along without either Arabic , or Sanscrit , or Chickasaw .
&quot; more empty houses than there are people , I guess , and no business to speak of except fishing and lobstering .
the voice was harsh not so much shrill as harsh .
it was with this feeling that I turned to the old steward who stood pale and trembling beside me ; &quot; Mark , Gaspar , if the next flash of lightning rend not that oak my father will be alive . &quot;
I staggered back towards the table my hand fell upon a cracked and blackened goblet and a consciousness of the entire and terrible truth flashed suddenly over my soul .
in the hurry I could hardly find an opportunity to bestow the last offices on Evadne .
at all events I was now close upon the planet , and coming down with the most terrible impetuosity .
what made the students shake their heads was his sober theory that a man might given mathematical knowledge admittedly beyond all likelihood of human acquirement step deliberately from the earth to any other celestial body which might lie at one of an infinity of specific points in the cosmic pattern .
his accent was mournful , he sighed deeply .
about twelve o &apos;clock I became aware , for the third time , of that appalling sound which had so astonished me before .
it is impossible that any deed could have been wrought with a more thorough deliberation .
I saw him descend the mountain with greater speed than the flight of an eagle , and quickly lost among the undulations of the sea of ice .
begone relieve me from the sight of your detested form . &quot;
I feel as if I were walking on the edge of a precipice , towards which thousands are crowding and endeavouring to plunge me into the abyss .
we must seek some natural Paradise , some garden of the earth , where our simple wants may be easily supplied , and the enjoyment of a delicious climate compensate for the social pleasures we have lost .
I heard of him first in rather a romantic manner , from a lady who owes to him the happiness of her life .
we had let our sails go by the run before it cleverly took us ; but , at the first puff , both our masts went by the board as if they had been sawed off the mainmast taking with it my youngest brother , who had lashed himself to it for safety .
at the expiration of this period , however , a natural although a very deep sigh escaped the bosom of the dying man , and the stertorous breathing ceased that is to say , its stertorousness was no longer apparent ; the intervals were undiminished .
this idea , although even more silly than that of the Parisian author , met with a better reception , and was in some measure believed to be the true solution of the wonder , until the inventor put an end to the discussion by suffering a close examination of the top of the box .
if I looked up , I saw scenes which were familiar to me in my happier time and which I had contemplated but the day before in the company of her who was now but a shadow and a recollection .
the precise regularity with which I turned my handsome person about , so as to bring successively into view every portion of the suit upon my back , was the admiration of all the knowing men in the trade .
the young girl spoke in high and enthusiastic terms of her mother , who , born in freedom , spurned the bondage to which she was now reduced .
it didn &apos;t sound sensible to him .
I confess that I felt a few sensations of terror .
the poetry of his language and ideas which my words ill convey held me enchained to his discourses .
those are as fixed as fate , and my voyage is only now delayed until the weather shall permit my embarkation .
served mainly to accelerate the increase itself .
to our irremediable distress every small and pelting inconvenience came with added force ; we had strung our frames to endure the Atlean weight thrown on us ; we sank beneath the added feather chance threw on us , &quot; the grasshopper was a burthen . &quot;
one who loved to be alone , and shrunk from observation ; who never smiled ; oh , no I never smiled and that was all .
to these the Baron replied at length still maintaining his exaggerated tone of sentiment and concluding , in what I thought very bad taste , with a sarcasm and a sneer .
the weather was chilly oh rare and happy accident , and a fire was blazing upon the hearth .
it was Adrian &apos;s wish to prevent all labour ; to bestow a festive appearance on this funeral train .
the buildings themselves are so precisely alike , that one can in no manner be distinguished from the other .
she nursed Madame Frankenstein , my aunt , in her last illness , with the greatest affection and care and afterwards attended her own mother during a tedious illness , in a manner that excited the admiration of all who knew her , after which she again lived in my uncle &apos;s house , where she was beloved by all the family .
by these means I somewhat softened the Angel .
the infant had been placed with these good people to nurse : they were better off then .
&quot; und you pelief , ten , &quot; he inquired , &quot; at te last ?
it was a happy day as we all thought it when my lord married her : I knew her when she was a child and many a good turn has she done for me in my old lady &apos;s time You are like her although there is more of my lord in you But has he been thus ever since his return ?
my affection for Clara also led me to oppose these fond dreams of cherished grief ; her sensibility had already been too much excited ; her infant heedlessness too soon exchanged for deep and anxious thought .
I was now in Washington Street , and for the moment saw no living thing nor any light save that of the moon .
they have fallen into the gross but common error of confounding the unusual with the abstruse .
my sensations , however , upon thus recovering , were by no means so rife with agony as might have been anticipated .
I was taken up into a garret ; and the surgeon &apos;s lady having accommodated me with drawers and stockings , the surgeon himself fastened my hands , and tied up my jaws with a pocket handkerchief then bolted the door on the outside as he hurried to his dinner , leaving me alone to silence and to meditation .
where , in this wilderness of death , art thou , O Raymond ornament of England , deliverer of Greece , &quot; hero of unwritten story , &quot; where in this burning chaos are thy dear relics strewed ?
was I much mourned , my Eiros ?
to my relief , the question did not seem an awkward one ; for the old man answered freely and volubly .
so swift was the growth of this tree , and so strange was its form , that all who beheld it exclaimed in surprise ; and Musides seemed at once fascinated and repelled .
in my tortured ears there sounds unceasingly a nightmare whirring and flapping , and a faint , distant baying as of some gigantic hound .
my uncle seemed now very wakeful , and welcomed his period of watching even though the nightmare had aroused him far ahead of his allotted two hours .
it might have been an hour , or thereabout , after my quitting the smack , when , having descended to a vast distance beneath me , it made three or four wild gyrations in rapid succession , and , bearing my loved brother with it , plunged headlong , at once and forever , into the chaos of foam below .
to those , nevertheless , cunning in the stars , it was not unknown that the heavens wore an aspect of ill ; and to me , the Greek Oinos , among others , it was evident that now had arrived the alternation of that seven hundred and ninety fourth year when , at the entrance of Aries , the planet Jupiter is conjoined with the red ring of the terrible Saturnus .
the question of identity is not even approached , and L &apos;Etoile has been at great pains merely to gainsay now what it has admitted only a moment before .
in &quot; Hans Pfaall &quot; the design is original , inasmuch as regards an attempt at verisimilitude , in the application of scientific principles so far as the whimsical nature of the subject would permit , to the actual passage between the earth and the moon .
do you dare to break your promise ?
on the upper stone lay a white petticoat ; on the second a silk scarf ; scattered around , were a parasol , gloves , and a pocket handkerchief bearing the name , &apos; Marie Rogêt.&apos;
they trailed off into nothingness as the whippoorwills shrieked in rhythmical crescendoes of unholy anticipation .
Reëntering the Square I saw that luck was with me ; for shuffling out of Paine Street around the corner of the Gilman House I glimpsed nothing less than the tall , lean , tattered form of old Zadok Allen himself .
&quot; yes just one year to a fraction .
the eldest was far the most beautiful , but her beauty was only an addition to her other qualities her understanding was clear strong and her disposition angelically gentle .
&quot; are you talking about Captain Mann and the duel ?
on the same afternoon in which I saw these notices in the &quot; Owl , &quot; the &quot; Toad , &quot; and the &quot; Mole &quot; I happened to meet with a copy of the &quot; Daddy Long Legs , &quot; a periodical proverbial for the extreme extent of its understanding .
at Rodosto I was full of hope ; but when first I saw Constantinople , that feeling , with every other joyful one , departed .
&quot; myself and my two brothers once owned a schooner rigged smack of about seventy tons burthen , with which we were in the habit of fishing among the islands beyond Moskoe , nearly to Vurrgh .
for example , &quot; The soul , &quot; said the former I give the words of an acute and intelligent Parisian &quot; ne demeure qu &apos;un seul fois dans un corps sensible : au reste un cheval , un chien , un homme même , n &apos;est que la ressemblance peu tangible de ces animaux . &quot;
clutching the edges of the aperture , he sought to pull himself up , when he noticed a queer retardation in the form of an apparent drag on both his ankles .
ultimately , however , she obtained new servants from out of town ; Ann White , a morose woman from that part of North Kingstown now set off as the township of Exeter , and a capable Boston man named Zenas Low .
it is the disunion of an whole which may not have parts ; it is the carelessness with which you have shaken off the mantle of election with which to me you were invested , and have become one among the many .
often , when my wandering fancy brought by its various images now consolation and now aggravation of grief to my heart , I have compared myself to Proserpine who was gaily and heedlessly gathering flowers on the sweet plain of Enna , when the King of Hell snatched her away to the abodes of death and misery .
he had been in the trade a long time , and , I may say , understood it .
it was now suggested that I should attempt to influence the patient &apos;s arm , as heretofore .
the very sustaining of our animal machine is made delightful ; and our sustenance , the fruits of the field , is painted with transcendant hues , endued with grateful odours , and palatable to our taste .
the gas had not heard of planets and organisms before , but identified Kuranes merely as one from the infinity where matter , energy , and gravitation exist .
&quot; you flatter me , &quot; replied the Prefect ; &quot; but it is possible that some such opinion may have been entertained . &quot;
and as I raised my glance it was without preparation that I saw glistening in the distance two daemoniac reflections of my expiring lamp ; two reflections glowing with a baneful and unmistakable effulgence , and provoking maddeningly nebulous memories .
such were my reflections as I commenced my journey ; but as I proceeded , my spirits and hopes rose .
it was connected with a powerful chemical battery , but seemed to be receiving no current ; for I recalled that in its experimental stage it had sputtered and purred when in action .
in this state room the pseudo wife , slept , of course , every night .
coming for the first time upon the town , I had seen it in the sunset from a bridge , majestic above its waters , its incredible peaks and Pyramids rising flower like and delicate from pools of violet mist to play with the flaming golden clouds and the first stars of evening .
but now I should have desired sympathy ; I should wish to knit my soul to some one of theirs , and should have prepared for myself plentiful draughts of disappointment and suffering ; for I was tender as the sensitive plant , all nerve .
there was no pulsation .
in some places the possessor had to the last kept watch on his store , and died before the barred gates .
ever since our first daemoniac session in the deserted farmhouse on Meadow Hill in Arkham , we had felt a brooding menace ; and West , though a calm , blond , blue eyed scientific automaton in most respects , often confessed to a shuddering sensation of stealthy pursuit .
the cabin of a small sloop lying at anchor in the stream , and laden with garden mould , afforded us the only available shelter .
his long , thick lip and coarse pored , greyish cheeks seemed almost beardless except for some sparse yellow hairs that straggled and curled in irregular patches ; and in places the surface seemed queerly irregular , as if peeling from some cutaneous disease .
the sleep into which I now sank refreshed me ; and when I awoke , I again felt as if I belonged to a race of human beings like myself , and I began to reflect upon what had passed with greater composure ; yet still the words of the fiend rang in my ears like a death knell ; they appeared like a dream , yet distinct and oppressive as a reality .
I was speaking with the editor of the paper in question , upon the topic of this remarkable accident , when it occurred to me to ask how it happened that the name of the deceased had been given as Bedlo .
Raymond rose perpetually in their estimation ; but one man held a superior command to him in their armies .
he had read much of things as they are , and talked with too many people .
on his lap lay the big fiddle , at which he was scraping , out of all time and tune , with both hands , making a great show , the nincompoop of playing &quot; Judy O &apos;Flannagan and Paddy O &apos;Rafferty . &quot;
one of them is unobstructed by furniture , and is wholly visible .
not that , like a magic scene , it all opened upon me at once : the information I had obtained was of a nature rather to direct my endeavours so soon as I should point them towards the object of my search than to exhibit that object already accomplished .
for the moment , at least , I was free .
in my solitary walk through , the city I had two humble but faithful companions .
the refreshing bliss of Love will again visit your heart , and undo the spell that binds you to woe , untill you wonder how your eyes could be closed in the long night that burthens you .
at the same moment the roaring noise of the water was completely drowned in a kind of shrill shriek such a sound as you might imagine given out by the waste pipes of many thousand steam vessels , letting off their steam all together .
eastward I could catch blue glimpses of the harbour , against which rose the decaying remains of three once beautiful Georgian steeples .
if he did not visit me at the appointed hour I was angry , very angry , and told him that if indeed he did feel interest in me it was cold , and could not be fitted for me , a poor worn creature , whose deep unhappiness demanded much more than his worldly heart could give .
with the view of producing impediment , the organic life and matter , complex , substantial , and law encumbered , were contrived .
very suddenly there came back to my soul motion and sound the tumultuous motion of the heart , and , in my ears , the sound of its beating .
Elton &apos;s translation of Hesiod .
alas what a horrible vision affronted my eyes ?
with stout wife and romping children he came , and his eyes were weary with seeing the same things for many years , and thinking the same well disciplined thoughts .
we had fair luck with specimens in Bolton much better than in Arkham .
death would be a boon if only it could blot out the memories .
then came the full fury of my monomania , and I struggled in vain against its strange and irresistible influence .
tho &apos; many of my readers have at times observ &apos;d and remark &apos;d a sort of antique flow in my Stile of writing , it hath pleased me to pass amongst the members of this generation as a young Man , giving out the fiction that I was born in , in America .
for the half of a century no mortal has disturbed them .
I had indeed warned him ten weeks before , when he burst forth with his tale of what he felt himself about to discover .
upon one occasion he saw this , I think , and afterwards avoided , or made a show of avoiding me .
the spring was of great power , compared with its dimensions , being capable of raising forty five pounds upon a barrel of four inches diameter , after the first turn , and gradually increasing as it was wound up .
used to be almost a city quite a port before the War of but all gone to pieces in the last hundred years or so .
they insinuated themselves into the substances about them , and the impediments to their progress yielded at their touch .
yes ; I hear the shouts of the herald proclaiming his approach in the pompous phraseology of the East .
of the remains of the fatal taper I had myself carefully disposed .
&quot; my reign is not yet over &quot; these words were legible in one of these inscriptions &quot; you live , and my power is complete .
its character did not undergo any material change .
thenceforward my voice was a household law ; and at an age when few children have abandoned their leading strings , I was left to the guidance of my own will , and became , in all but name , the master of my own actions .
one day , it was the ninth of September , seemed devoted to every disaster , to every harrowing incident .
&quot; my good fellow , &quot; said Raymond , &quot; this is neither the time nor place for the delivery of a moral lecture : take my word for it that my amusements and society are not so bad as you imagine .
the &apos; Hum Drum , &apos; the &apos; Rowdy Dow , &apos; and the &apos; Goosetherumfoodle , &apos; excel , it is true , in braggadocio , but , in all other points , give us the &apos; Lollipop &apos; How this celebrated journal can sustain its evidently tremendous expenses , is more than we can understand .
I have done my best , though perhaps I have done wrong .
these were questions of prudence ; there was no immediate necessity for an earnest caution .
they &apos;ve never seemed to do much buying in that line , but years ago they shipped out an enormous lot of ingots .
just what happened is unknown , for not only was my own mind unseated by the strange and hideous thing , but others were tainted with a forgetfulness which can mean nothing if not madness .
the man who had beckoned now spoke a welcome to me in a soft language I seemed to know well , and the hours were filled with soft songs of the oarsmen as we glided away into a mysterious South , golden with the glow of that full , mellow moon .
I took possession of my sister &apos;s cottage , and blessed myself that I lived within view of Windsor Castle .
he knocked ; the door was opened by a string from above the broken , wretched staircase was immediately before him , but no person appeared ; he knocked again , vainly and then , impatient of further delay , he ascended the dark , creaking stairs .
the open space ahead shone wide and desolate under the moon , but my route would not force me to cross it .
then the resplendent aura of my brother of light drew near and held colloquy with me , soul to soul , with silent and perfect interchange of thought .
in the first event he had bidden an eternal farewell to open hearted converse , and entire sympathy with the companion of his life .
in this expedition we did not intend to follow the great road to Edinburgh , but to visit Windsor , Oxford , Matlock , and the Cumberland lakes , resolving to arrive at the completion of this tour about the end of July .
my good wishes followed it to the earth , but of course , I had no hope that either cat or kittens would ever live to tell the tale of their misfortune .
the haunted wood and the desolate mountain are their shrines , and they linger around the sinister monoliths on uninhabited islands .
I walked aimlessly south past College Hill and the Athenaeum , down Hopkins Street , and over the bridge to the business section where tall buildings seemed to guard me as modern material things guard the world from ancient and unwholesome wonder .
there in the ancient Gothic doorway stood a human figure .
there was an air of oddity , in short , about the dress of the whole party , which , at first , caused me to recur to my original idea of the &quot; soothing system , &quot; and to fancy that Monsieur Maillard had been willing to deceive me until after dinner , that I might experience no uncomfortable feelings during the repast , at finding myself dining with lunatics ; but I remembered having been informed , in Paris , that the southern provincialists were a peculiarly eccentric people , with a vast number of antiquated notions ; and then , too , upon conversing with several members of the company , my apprehensions were immediately and fully dispelled .
in the present instance these shutters are fully three feet and a half broad .
could we take integral parts of this power , and not be subject to its operation ?
in the evening we parted ; he pressed my hand : &quot; we shall meet again ; come to me to morrow . &quot;
there was no help for it ; so I submitted with a good grace , and listened , in all the martyrdom of dignified silence , to the balance of that very capital discourse .
some time ago , there were about twenty seven patients here ; and , of that number , no less than eighteen were women ; but , lately , matters have changed very much , as you see . &quot; &quot; yes have changed very much , as you see , &quot; here interrupted the gentleman who had broken the shins of Ma &apos;m&apos;selle Laplace .
among innumerable other instances , I well remember something in a volume of Joseph Glanvill , which perhaps merely from its quaintness who shall say ? never failed to inspire me with the sentiment ; &quot; And the will therein lieth , which dieth not .
the corpse of the mother was horribly mutilated .
&quot; that naturally hit Obed pretty hard , seein &apos; as his normal trade was doin &apos; very poor .
for the present they would rest ; but some day , if they remembered , they would rise again for the tribute Great Cthulhu craved .
the nicety of your discernment in all the matters here treated , will be sufficient , I am assured , to convince you that the mere circumstance of me referring you to this admirable passage , ought to satisfy your request , as a man of honor , for explanation .
the pieces , as described , do indeed &apos; look like strips torn off ; &apos; but purposely and by hand .
your Excellencies may , however , readily imagine that the confined regions hitherto unexplored within the limits of the arctic circle , although situated directly beneath me , and therefore seen without any appearance of being foreshortened , were still , in themselves , comparatively too diminutive , and at too great a distance from the point of sight , to admit of any very accurate examination .
afterward he could not be sure about the boy , who may have had some kind of a fringed belt and a pair of dark trunks or trousers on .
for a second there flashed a degraded counterfeit of a miniature of poor mad Rhoby Harris that I had seen in the School of design Museum , and another time I thought I caught the raw boned image of Mercy Dexter as I recalled her from a painting in Carrington Harris &apos;s house .
in time , however , the light spread itself over all , and I again saw the line of ice to the northward .
but not long was I left in doubt .
the magnitude and the immediate availability of the sum bewildered all who thought on the topic .
I rushed from my hiding place and with extreme labour , from the force of the current , saved her and dragged her to shore .
the hideous eyes were now closed .
this is not resignation that I feel , for I am dead to all regret .
the agony of his countenance , the convulsive struggle of his frame , gave evidence of superhuman exertion : but no sound , save a solitary shriek , escaped from his lacerated lips , which were bitten through and through in the intensity of terror .
dust had returned to dust .
they were excellent pay .
it is always a relief to get clear of the place , and to follow the narrow road around the base of the hills and across the level country beyond till it rejoins the Aylesbury pike .
now , the Day Book is a thing that don &apos;t lie .
and what do those Dagoes know of their meaning ?
attendants were grouped about in tense curiosity , eager to aid our memory by telling us how we came there , and we soon heard of the farmer who had found us at noon in a lonely field beyond Meadow Hill , a mile from the old burying ground , on a spot where an ancient slaughterhouse is reputed to have stood .
these were all the instructions Mr. B. could afford me upon the topic in question , but I felt they would be entirely sufficient .
yet do not suppose , because I complain a little or because I can conceive a consolation for my toils which I may never know , that I am wavering in my resolutions .
we no longer look on this dearest part of ourselves , as a tender plant which we must cherish , or a plaything for an idle hour .
Safie was always gay and happy ; she and I improved rapidly in the knowledge of language , so that in two months I began to comprehend most of the words uttered by my protectors .
and for this evil there is no remedy within human ability ; for an object is seen by means of that light alone which proceeds from itself , whether direct or reflected .
but when I awaked next morning I felt it had all been a dream , for the visions I had seen were more wonderful than any sound of wild pipes in the night .
for five minutes the resultant din and chaos were beyond description .
though they only should remain on the earth , still they shall live , nor shall their cheeks become pale nor their sweet voices languish . &quot;
I was to see him at once , and procure a carriage .
of the date of this origin , however , I grieve that I can only speak with that species of indefinite definiteness which mathematicians are , at times , forced to put up with in certain algebraic formulae .
the Duc knew it to be a ruby ; but from it there poured a light so intense , so still , so terrible , Persia never worshipped such Gheber never imagined such Mussulman never dreamed of such when , drugged with opium , he has tottered to a bed of poppies , his back to the flowers , and his face to the God Apollo .
there was no system whatever in swindling me out of a penny a clear fraud of fifty per cent no method in any respect .
a settled taciturnity was absorbing him , and for the first time people began to speak specifically of the dawning look of evil in his goatish face .
&apos;Come in . &apos; &quot; I entered .
I saw I felt I knew that I was deeply , madly , irrevocably in love and this even before seeing the face of the person beloved .
the very winds whispered in soothing accents , and maternal Nature bade me weep no more .
and too , I remember the sun of morning bright above the many coloured hills in summer , and the sweetness of flowers borne on the south wind that made the trees sing .
he described this republic ; shewed how it gave privilege to each individual in the state , to rise to consequence , and even to temporary sovereignty .
the site he had chosen a recently straightened part of the new and fashionable Back Street , which ran along the side of the hill above crowded Cheapside was all that could be wished , and the building did justice to the location .
the sense of injury , associated with the name of king and noble , clung to me ; but I could draw no conclusions from such feelings , to serve as a guide to action .
his gaiety , which was extreme , had the strange effect of awakening in me contrary feelings ; a presentiment of evil hung over me ; I loitered on my return ; I counted the hours that must elapse before I saw Idris again .
I felt it advisable to keep my mind wholesomely occupied , for it would not do to brood over the abnormalities of this ancient , blight shadowed town while I was still within its borders .
presently re squeaked the nondescript , which I now perceived was performing , upon the floor , some inexplicable evolution , very analogous to the drawing on of a stocking .
when the medical examiner came , there was only a sticky whitish mass on the painted boards , and the monstrous odour had nearly disappeared .
it was that night that the faint , distant baying over the moor became to us a certain and dreaded reality .
in truth , the man who would behold aright the glory of God upon earth must in solitude behold that glory .
on the top of this latter is a chess board , also permanently affixed .
her right arm lay folded over her bosom .
one of them , who had been from the first the leader among those who had seized me , resolved to satisfy his own resentment , before he made me over to the higher powers .
above all I must guard those entrusted by nature and fate to my especial care .
I have read with ardour the accounts of the various voyages which have been made in the prospect of arriving at the North Pacific Ocean through the seas which surround the pole .
the first sight that was presented to your eyes was the body of your friend , murdered in so unaccountable a manner and placed , as it were , by some fiend across your path . &quot;
when these thoughts possessed me , I would not quit Henry for a moment , but followed him as his shadow , to protect him from the fancied rage of his destroyer .
in what was the despised Raymond not the same ?
filled with a feeling that our tangible world is only an atom in a fabric vast and ominous , and that unknown demesnes press on and permeate the sphere of the known at every point , Northam in youth and young manhood drained in turn the founts of formal religion and occult mystery .
it is only now , in the year , when similar miracles are witnessed daily by thousands , that I dare venture to record this apparent impossibility as a matter of serious fact .
&quot; we must talk of these things at some more appropriate time . &quot;
but we did not set foot upon the sloping meadows of Zar , for it is told that he who treads them may nevermore return to his native shore .
I lay still and somewhat dazed , but before long heard West &apos;s rap on my door .
they knew , indeed , that West had been connected with activities beyond the credence of ordinary men ; for his hideous experiments in the reanimation of dead bodies had long been too extensive to admit of perfect secrecy ; but the final soul shattering catastrophe held elements of daemoniac phantasy which make even me doubt the reality of what I saw .
it arose in part , no doubt , from the sentiment of love with which I was imbued ; but chiefly from my conviction of the extreme sensibility of the singer .
and the householders were troubled when they noticed that in all the village there was not a cat to be found .
the inferences from all this we leave , without farther comment , to the reader . .
the long duration of his malady has probably erased from his mind all vestige of her ; and it were well that it should never again be imprinted .
there was that first specimen on whose rifled grave marks of clawing were later seen .
Byron , who often erred , erred not in saying , I &apos;ve seen more living beauty , ripe and real , than all the nonsense of their stone ideal .
what agonizing fondness did I feel for them How did I cling to their dear forms , as sometimes they haunted even my waking hours , and persuade myself that they still lived At such moments vengeance , that burned within me , died in my heart , and I pursued my path towards the destruction of the daemon more as a task enjoined by heaven , as the mechanical impulse of some power of which I was unconscious , than as the ardent desire of my soul .
even while he stalked a God in his own fancy , an infantine imbecility came over him .
many years ago , when the hillside villa was new and resplendent , there dwelt within it the two sculptors Kalos and Musides .
I scanned his physiognomy , which varied as he spoke , yet was beautiful in every change .
he was the originator of tall monuments shot towers lightning rods Lombardy poplars .
what he had once been , many tried to guess ; for his language and mode of utterance when intoxicated to a certain degree were such as to excite wonderment ; but what he was , presented less difficulty for &quot; Old Bugs &quot; , in superlative degree , epitomised the pathetic species known as the &quot; bum &quot; or the &quot; down and outer &quot; .
a singularly noiseless bat brushed by me , and I believe it touched Manton also , for although I could not see him I felt him raise his arm .
this interfered with the solitude I coveted for the prosecution of my task ; yet at the commencement of my journey the presence of my friend could in no way be an impediment , and truly I rejoiced that thus I should be saved many hours of lonely , maddening reflection .
the exposed area was huge and roughly cylindrical ; like a mammoth soft blue white stovepipe doubled in two , its largest part some two feet in diameter .
there may be an object in keeping with the principle an object unattainable by the means ordinarily possessed by individuals , yet which , if attained , would lend a charm to the landscape garden far surpassing that which a sense of merely human interest could bestow .
the sole light admitted into the gloomy chamber proceeded from a square opening , about a foot in diameter , at a height of about seven feet from the floor .
the son confirmed his father &apos;s account , but when Daniel Nugent was called he swore positively that just before the fall of his companion , he saw a boat , with a single man in it , at a short distance from the shore ; and as far as he could judge by the light of a few stars , it was the same boat in which I had just landed .
but that moment was very brief , for presently he was in a crude , windowless little space with rough beams and planks rising to a peak just above his head , and with a curious slanting floor underfoot .
the infection had now spread in the southern provinces of France .
its termination the feeble light did not enable us to see .
a long , wild , and continuous shriek , or yell of agony , resounded through the realms of the subterranean Night .
next to him , and at the right hand of the president , was a gentleman in long white hose and cotton drawers .
this was that cult , and the prisoners said it had always existed and always would exist , hidden in distant wastes and dark places all over the world until the time when the great priest Cthulhu , from his dark house in the mighty city of R &apos;lyeh under the waters , should rise and bring the earth again beneath his sway .
he saw that Elwood had dropped asleep , and tried to call out and waken him .
our glances , however , rested not long upon the dead for we could not regard her unawed .
the reason assigned for the suspension of the Chess Player &apos;s performances , was not the illness of Schlumberger .
Unpopularity had dogged them in East Greenwich , whither they had come in , after the revocation of the Edict of Nantes , and rumour said that the cause of dislike extended beyond mere racial and national prejudice , or the land disputes which involved other French settlers with the English in rivalries which not even Governor Andros could quell .
as the circumstances of his marriage illustrate his character , I cannot refrain from relating them .
there was freedom in it , a companionship with nature , and a reckless loneliness ; but these , romantic as they were , did not accord with the love of action and desire of human sympathy , characteristic of youth .
man himself seemed to regenerate , and feel the frost of winter yield to an elastic and warm renewal of life reason told us that care and sorrow would grow with the opening year but how to believe the ominous voice breathed up with pestiferous vapours from fear &apos;s dim cavern , while nature , laughing and scattering from her green lap flowers , and fruits , and sparkling waters , invited us to join the gay masque of young life she led upon the scene ?
you must forget me and all the evil that I have taught you .
the sorry plight of her dress displayed her poverty , she was ghastly pale , and continued approaching , first the window and then the door of the house , as if fearful , yet longing to enter .
Kuranes was not modern , and did not think like others who wrote .
without a moment &apos;s hesitation , therefore , I prepared to accompany the negro .
there were no clouds apparent , yet the wind was upon the increase , and blew with a fitful and unsteady fury .
it was so long since I had spoken to any but peasants that I felt a disagreable sensation at being gazed on by one of superior rank .
my impatience rose to its utmost ; I stretched out my hands to the men ; I conjured them to turn back and save their General , the conqueror of Stamboul , the liberator of Greece ; tears , aye tears , in warm flow gushed from my eyes I would not believe in his destruction ; yet every mass that darkened the air seemed to bear with it a portion of the martyred Raymond .
the driver also alighted , and I watched him as he went into the drug store to make some purchase .
it was not , however , that to life itself I had any , positive disgust , but that I was harassed beyond endurance by the adventitious miseries attending my situation .
here it is difficult to suppose the reasoner in earnest .
&quot; you don &apos;t tell me so I never heard of any thing so absurd in my life &quot; &quot; fact it all came to pass by means of a stupid fellow a lunatic who , by some means , had taken it into his head that he had invented a better system of government than any ever heard of before of lunatic government , I mean .
but I thought Werter himself a more divine being than I had ever beheld or imagined ; his character contained no pretension , but it sank deep .
while we gazed in the extremity of astonishment , he passed , rapidly , several turns of a three inch rope , first around the box and then around his body .
Frederick , Baron Metzengerstein , was , on the other hand , not yet of age .
the whining prayers of the superstitious loomfixer were still sounding through the mouldy halls , but Gilman did not mind them now .
in the mean time Ryland had been chosen Protector .
the wild animals in the woods took fright at the unknown shapes figured on the ground .
oh , outcast of all outcasts most abandoned to the earth art thou not forever dead ? to its honors , to its flowers , to its golden aspirations ?
his poverty was easily detected and relieved .
it will be seen that , in bringing about such result , he secures all the advantages of interest or design , while relieving his work of the harshness or technicality of the worldly art .
over the streams and lakelets rode white swans , whilst the music of rare birds chimed in with the melody of the waters .
&quot; I proceeded to think thus a posteriori .
the brandy and water is furnished and imbibed , and the diddler makes his way to the door .
the overcoat is dropped , and , with one of his feet , Pompey stepped upon the long and trailing skirt of the overcoat .
my first care was to make thorough search of the minister &apos;s hotel ; and here my chief embarrassment lay in the necessity of searching without his knowledge .
but busy , uninteresting , joyous faces brought back despair to my heart .
this , I reflected , must be the Joe Sargent mentioned by the ticket agent ; and even before I noticed any details there spread over me a wave of spontaneous aversion which could be neither checked nor explained .
I accordingly grew angry , and told him in plain words , that he was a fool , that he had committed an ignoramus e clench eye , that his notions were mere insommary Bovis , and his words little better than an ennemywerrybor &apos;em .
the sun was setting ; and the clouds , straying , like new shorn sheep , through the vast fields of sky , received the golden colour of his parting beams ; the distant uplands shone out , and the busy hum of evening came , harmonized by distance , on our ear .
this was done , of course , to keep the bag distended at the top , and to preserve the lower part of the net work in its proper situation .
it was that thick witted housekeeper she turned on the lights downstairs after I had warned her not to , and the wires picked up sympathetic vibrations .
but more trivial causes have given rise and that no long while ago to consequences equally eventful .
I shall seal the manuscript in a bottle and entrust it to the sea as I leave the U forever .
that Bullet head had been driven to an extremity , was clear to all ; and in fact , since that editor could not be found , there was some talk about lynching the other one .
history had led me to this archaic grave .
the good people of the borough had scarcely a chance , however , to get their eyes thoroughly open , when , just as it wanted half a minute of noon , the rascal bounced , as I say , right into the midst of them ; gave a chassez here , and a balancez there ; and then , after a pirouette and a pas de Zephyr , pigeon winged himself right up into the belfry of the House of the Town Council , where the wonder stricken belfry man sat smoking in a state of dignity and dismay .
even amid the agonies of that period , the human nature craved food .
continuing thus , I came at length opposite to the inn at which the various diligences and carriages usually stopped .
men of broader intellect know that there is no sharp distinction betwixt the real and the unreal ; that all things appear as they do only by virtue of the delicate individual physical and mental media through which we are made conscious of them ; but the prosaic materialism of the majority condemns as madness the flashes of super sight which penetrate the common veil of obvious empiricism .
the first definite idea entertained by the populace was , that some diabolical treason lay concealed in the hieroglyphics ; and there was a general rush to Bullet head &apos;s residence , for the purpose of riding him on a rail ; but that gentleman was nowhere to be found .
she consented , she said , to forgive her daughter , and acknowledge her grandchildren ; larger concessions must not be expected .
he could not help regarding my exclamation as a presumption of my guilt and said in rather a severe tone , &quot; I should have thought , young man , that the presence of your father would have been welcome instead of inspiring such violent repugnance . &quot;
when I could stand it no longer I raised myself upon my knees , still keeping hold with my hands , and thus got my head clear .
Balbutius , however , had protested , so that more correspondence had ensued .
&quot; so God help me and mine as I promise , &quot; I replied , &quot; on one condition : return with me to Windsor . &quot; &quot; to Windsor &quot; he cried with a shriek , &quot; Never from this place I never go my bones , my flesh , I myself , are already buried here , and what you see of me is corrupted clay like them .
we may get , however , at a tolerably distinct conception of the matter in hand , by defining not the thing , diddling , in itself but man , as an animal that diddles .
you the good , the wise , the just , may rule all hearts .
but that I cannot find the place again is both singular and perplexing ; for it was within a half hour &apos;s walk of the university and was distinguished by peculiarities which could hardly be forgotten by anyone who had been there .
faith had urged him on , over the precipice and into the gulf , where he had floated down , down , down ; past dark , shapeless , undreamed dreams , faintly glowing spheres that may have been partly dreamed dreams , and laughing winged things that seemed to mock the dreamers of all the worlds .
if you wish to write forcibly , Miss Zenobia , pay minute attention to the sensations . &quot;
but he never ate that dessert ; for an item on the paper &apos;s first page left him limp , wild eyed , and able only to pay his check and stagger back to Elwood &apos;s room .
every moment I feared to meet my persecutor .
rather must it be said that we were not prepared to deny the possibility of certain unfamiliar and unclassified modifications of vital force and attenuated matter ; existing very infrequently in three dimensional space because of its more intimate connexion with other spatial units , yet close enough to the boundary of our own to furnish us occasional manifestations which we , for lack of a proper vantage point , may never hope to understand .
at noon June we turned northeastward , and despite some rather comical entanglements with the unusual masses of dolphins were soon under way .
our youngest was yet in infancy ; but his downy cheek was sprinkled with the roses of health , and his unwearied vivacity filled our halls with innocent laughter .
in regard to the depth of the water , I could not see how this could have been ascertained at all in the immediate vicinity of the vortex .
it is hideous to see wrinkles form and hair whiten almost before one &apos;s eyes .
he , she thought , can be great and happy without me .
the Prefect appeared absolutely thunder stricken .
the chief of these outsiders , and in a short time the focus of interest for the entire meeting , was a commonplace looking middle aged man who had travelled all the way from New Orleans for certain special information unobtainable from any local source .
who , then , is the secret lover , of whom the relatives at least most of them know nothing , but whom Marie meets upon the morning of Sunday , and who is so deeply in her confidence , that she hesitates not to remain with him until the shades of the evening descend , amid the solitary groves of the Barrière du Roule ?
better wait till it goes on . &quot;
it is not more incomprehensible than distinctive .
in and , it was taken to London by Mr. Maelzel .
but my disease grew upon me for what disease is like alcohol and at length even Pluto , who was now becoming old , and consequently somewhat peevish even Pluto began to experience the effects of my ill temper .
fancied I could again distinguish a strip of land to the eastward , and one also to the westward , but could not be certain .
the balustrade was chest high , delicate , and fantastically wrought , while along the rail were ranged at short intervals little figures of grotesque design and exquisite workmanship .
all praises bestowed on her I received as made to a possession of my own .
the word &apos; affaire &apos; has not yet , in France , that levity of import which it conveys with us , &quot; but nothing whatever has transpired to throw light upon it .
there was a third that person was myself .
was it not natural that a local mystery cult should adopt among its regimentals an unique type of head dress made familiar to the community in some strange way perhaps as treasure trove ?
he did not ask me to call on him , and when I did call he appeared uneasy and played listlessly .
but it was upon his minute acquaintance with the etiquette of the duello , and the nicety of his sense of honor , that he most especially prided himself .
the solution had to be differently compounded for different types what would serve for guinea pigs would not serve for human beings , and different human specimens required large modifications .
I closed not my eyes that night .
I trembled and my heart failed within me , when , on looking up , I saw by the light of the moon the daemon at the casement .
he had shot himself after a trip to New England the same trip , no doubt , which had caused him to be recalled at the Arkham Historical Society .
he rose , and I followed him through the rain to a neighbouring church yard he threw himself on the wet earth .
&quot; stop them , stop them &quot; he would shout .
the spells that preserved Them intact likewise prevented Them from making an initial move , and They could only lie awake in the dark and think whilst uncounted millions of years rolled by .
I might refer at once , if necessary to a hundred well authenticated instances .
now he has disappeared .
it was West who first noticed the falling plaster on that part of the wall where the ancient tomb masonry had been covered up .
we had traversed London from Hyde Park even to where we now were in the Minories , and had met no person , heard no voice nor footstep .
all sorts of unpleasant conjectures crossed my mind .
I did not wring my hands , or tear my hair , or utter wild exclamations , but as Boccacio describes the intense and quiet grief of Sigismunda over the heart of Guiscardo , I sat with my hands folded , silently letting fall a perpetual stream from my eyes .
the servant obeyed ; few words were spoken on either side ; but those were caught at with avidity by the intended victim .
artists and archaeologists who had seen them pronounced the workmanship superlatively and exotically exquisite , though no one seemed able to define their exact material or assign them to any specific art tradition .
I dun &apos;t need to tell ye I &apos;ll take good keer of it .
encouraged by the impunity attendant on my former visit , several soldiers who had made a part of Raymond &apos;s body guard , who had loved him , and sincerely mourned his loss , accompanied me .
let the police find what they can it won &apos;t be much , judging from the fact that they don &apos;t know yet of the old North End place he hired under the name of Peters .
my internal being was in a state of insurrection and turmoil ; I felt that order would thence arise , but I had no power to produce it .
we accordingly brought him back to the deck and restored him to animation by rubbing him with brandy and forcing him to swallow a small quantity .
her mother was a German and had died on giving her birth .
and thus with stern pride she suffered him to go , though her very heart strings cracked at the fulfilling of the act , which rent from her all that made life valuable .
this may either loosen the corpse from the soft mud or ooze in which it is imbedded , thus permitting it to rise when other agencies have already prepared it for so doing ; or it may overcome the tenacity of some putrescent portions of the cellular tissue ; allowing the cavities to distend under the influence of the gas .
it is also calculated that at an altitude not exceeding the hundredth part of the earth &apos;s diameter that is , not exceeding eighty miles the rarefaction would be so excessive that animal life could in no manner be sustained , and , moreover , that the most delicate means we possess of ascertaining the presence of the atmosphere would be inadequate to assure us of its existence .
once more I looked on her altered face ; the last time I saw her she was eighteen ; beautiful as poet &apos;s vision , splendid as a Sultana of the East Twelve years had past ; twelve years of change , sorrow and hardship ; her brilliant complexion had become worn and dark , her limbs had lost the roundness of youth and womanhood ; her eyes had sunk deep , crushed and o &apos;erworn , The hours had drained her blood , and filled her brow With lines and wrinkles .
none of the mountaineers had dared to pursue him , and it is likely that they would have welcomed his death from the cold ; but when several mornings later they heard his screams from a distant ravine , they realised that he had somehow managed to survive , and that his removal in one way or another would be necessary .
the drawers of the bureau , it is said , had been rifled , although many articles of apparel still remained within them .
but it felt a stir of pride one day when again marched forth young men , some of whom never came back .
&quot; but double L. Dee &quot; SMITHERTON .
it took me an hour to place my whole head within the opening so far that I could see him as he lay upon his bed .
behind everything crouched the brooding , festering horror of the ancient town , and of the mouldy , unhallowed garret gable where he wrote and studied and wrestled with figures and formulae when he was not tossing on the meagre iron bed .
on an afternoon in early September Arthur Munroe listened to my story .
our southward speed , as gauged by the ocean floor , was about as I had estimated from the organisms passed at higher levels .
she lived in the same country , breathed the same air as Raymond .
I pretended to be alarmed by the feverish glow in her cheek ; I entreated her to take a composing draught ; I poured out the medicine , which she took docilely from me .
I was one , who , though an aspirant after good , and an ardent lover of wisdom , was yet unenrolled in any list of worth , when Idris , the princely born , who was herself the personification of all that was divine in woman , she who walked the earth like a poet &apos;s dream , as a carved goddess endued with sense , or pictured saint stepping from the canvas she , the most worthy , chose me , and gave me herself a priceless gift .
how singularly how thrillingly , this one point in the nature of my wife has forced itself , at this late period only , upon my attention I said her knowledge was such as I have never known in woman but where breathes the man who has traversed , and successfully , all the wide areas of moral , physical , and mathematical science ?
she had lost her mother when very young , but her father had devoted himself to the care of her education He had many peculiar ideas which influenced the system he had adopted with regard to her She was well acquainted with the heroes of Greece and Rome or with those of England who had lived some hundred years ago , while she was nearly ignorant of the passing events of the day : she had read few authors who had written during at least the last fifty years but her reading with this exception was very extensive .
as regards the progress of the star , it can make no difference whether the star passes through the ether or the ether through it .
after summer is winter , and after winter summer .
in the second place , Mr. Bob , the Magazine rule is never to disburse what we term in France the argent comptant I have no doubt you understand .
Mount Maenalus is a chosen haunt of dreaded Pan , whose queer companions are many , and simple swains believe that the tree must have some hideous kinship to these weird Panisci ; but an old bee keeper who lives in the neighbouring cottage told me a different story .
&quot; it is merely , &quot; I said , &quot; an identification of the reasoner &apos;s intellect with that of his opponent . &quot;
the man himself was pitiably inferior in mentality and language alike ; but his glowing , titanic visions , though described in a barbarous and disjointed jargon , were assuredly things which only a superior or even exceptional brain could conceive .
to him Birch had felt no compunction in assigning the carelessly made coffin which he now pushed out of the way in his quest for the Fenner casket .
they formed a motley and heterogeneous admixture ; some petulant animosity , which was not yet hatred , some esteem , more respect , much fear , with a world of uneasy curiosity .
whoever labours for man must often find ingratitude , watered by vice and folly , spring from the grain which he has sown .
I long , in passing through the dim valley , for the sympathy I had nearly said for the pity of my fellow men .
after the doctors and nurses had left , I whispered an awestruck question : &quot; good God , Manton , but what was it ?
having accordingly disposed of what remained of the ale , and looped up the points of their short doublets , they finally made a bolt for the street .
that she loved me I should not have doubted ; and I might have been easily aware that , in a bosom such as hers , love would have reigned no ordinary passion .
from the first I felt that the unseen fumbler meant a danger not to be met or dealt with , but only to be fled from as precipitately as possible .
yet a sense of duty finally operated to restore my self possession .
the material was the richest cloth of gold .
the corn that sprung up in plenty , lay in autumn rotting on the ground , while the melancholy wretch who had gone out to gather bread for his children , lay stiff and plague struck in the furrow .
he did not return ; and soon Clara crept round to me , making the accustomed invitation .
here I could mark the net work of the clouds as they wove themselves into thick masses : I could watch the slow rise of the heavy thunder clouds and could see the rack as it was driven across the heavens , or under the pine trees I could enjoy the stillness of the azure sky .
the silence remained unbroken for an hour .
our camera missed nothing , and I regret that so fine a reel of film should never reach Berlin .
at the opera , my great , great , grandmother &apos;s attention was arrested by my notice ; and , upon surveying me through her eye glass , she was struck with a certain family resemblance to herself .
the only flag among them was one which Raymond carried ; he pointed with it to the gate of the city .
but when , years afterward , the next young Comte , Robert by name , was found dead in a nearby field from no apparent cause , the peasants told in whispers that their seigneur had but lately passed his thirty second birthday when surprised by early death .
&quot; but whatever force there may still appear to be in the suggestion of Le Commerciel , will be much diminished when we take into consideration the hour at which the girl went abroad .
this they tell from hearsay , for that forbidding crag is always unvisited , and natives dislike to train telescopes on it .
but Raymond did not join her in any of her avocations .
in other words , the base and hypothenuse of the supposed triangle would be so long when compared with the perpendicular , that the two former may be regarded as nearly parallel .
as April advanced Gilman &apos;s fever sharpened ears were disturbed by the whining prayers of a superstitious loomfixer named Joe Mazurewicz , who had a room on the ground floor .
they sought they panted for right views .
it may readily be supposed that the part played by my friend , in the drama at the Rue Morgue , had not failed of its impression upon the fancies of the Parisian police .
you , my creator , would tear me to pieces and triumph ; remember that , and tell me why I should pity man more than he pities me ?
he knew that fear and melancholy forebodings were powerful assistants to disease ; that desponding and brooding care rendered the physical nature of man peculiarly susceptible of infection .
take this un here near the front .
thereafter , on the cloudy nights when I could sleep , I saw the city often ; sometimes under that horned waning moon , and sometimes under the hot yellow rays of a sun which did not set , but which wheeled low around the horizon .
it was necessary to follow up our nomination , and to persuade Raymond to present himself to the electors on the following evening .
but my berth was in such a position , that when my own state room door was open , as well as the sliding door in question and my own door was always open on account of the heat , I could see into the after cabin quite distinctly , and just at that portion of it , too , where were situated the state rooms of Mr. Wyatt .
&quot; how long have you had that cough ? &quot; &quot; ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh ugh &quot; My poor friend found it impossible to reply for many minutes .
and the kings would look out over the lake and curse the bones of the dead that lay beneath it .
upon the evening in question , therefore , I was in a condition little short of madness .
both above and below us were visible fragments of vessels , large masses of building timber and trunks of trees , with many smaller articles , such as pieces of house furniture , broken boxes , barrels and staves .
it was the tumult within the grounds of the cemetery , he said , which appeared to awaken him from a deep sleep , but no sooner was he awake than he became fully aware of the awful horrors of his position .
&quot; night quickly shut in , but to my extreme wonder , I found that the cottagers had a means of prolonging light by the use of tapers , and was delighted to find that the setting of the sun did not put an end to the pleasure I experienced in watching my human neighbours .
I sprung towards him with a cry of joy and would have thrown myself into his arms , but he pushed me roughly from him and left me .
there was war , and thereafter no more Indians troubled The Street .
but , by and by , the Angel suddenly construed this behavior of mine into contempt .
as I moved the furniture and rushed toward the windows I heard a frightful scurrying along the corridor toward the room north of me , and perceived that the southward battering had ceased .
I remember how John Burgoyne , Esq . , the General , whose Dramatick and tical Works were printed after his Death , was blackballed by three Votes ; probably because of his unfortunate defeat in the American War , at Saratoga .
I cannot pretend to recount all that he told me , but I gleaned from what he said that he was the genius who presided over the contretemps of mankind , and whose business it was to bring about the odd accidents which are continually astonishing the skeptic .
&quot; I know , &quot; continued the unhappy victim , &quot; how heavily and fatally this one circumstance weighs against me , but I have no power of explaining it ; and when I have expressed my utter ignorance , I am only left to conjecture concerning the probabilities by which it might have been placed in my pocket .
over a fourth of those who reported anything , reported scenes and half sounds not unlike those which Wilcox had described ; and some of the dreamers confessed acute fear of the gigantic nameless thing visible toward the last .
CHAPTER London was our present point of rest ; we determined to remain several months in this wonderful and celebrated city .
here it is , within my grasp .
I hastened to make an end of my labor .
but the voices of madmen , even in their wildest paroxysms , are never found to tally with that peculiar voice heard upon the stairs .
caution is the first care of those accustomed to face occasional charlatanry and imposture .
much sympathy was , of course , exercised in my behalf , and as no one made claim to my corpse , it was ordered that I should be interred in a public vault .
Locally , interest was intensified by the obscurity of the cause of death .
it is true , there are occasions when Nature asserts her violated dominions ; but then the devouring of a man at arms , or the throttling of a consecrated bull , is a circumstance of too little moment to be more than hinted at in Epidaphne .
&quot; you will remember , &quot; said he , &quot; that it was about nine in the morning when I left Charlottesville .
I was especially fond of animals , and was indulged by my parents with a great variety of pets .
&quot; the two houses adjoining &quot; I exclaimed ; &quot; you must have had a great deal of trouble . &quot;
doubtless this visitation was for extent unexampled more need that we should work hard to dispute its progress ; ere this men have gone out in sport , and slain their thousands and tens of thousands ; but now man had become a creature of price ; the life of one of them was of more worth than the so called treasures of kings .
prior to that time he had made up for the prosiness of life by nightly excursions to strange and ancient cities beyond space , and lovely , unbelievable garden lands across ethereal seas ; but as middle age hardened upon him he felt these liberties slipping away little by little , until at last he was cut off altogether .
you are my creator , but I am your master ; obey &quot; &quot; The hour of my irresolution is past , and the period of your power is arrived .
all proceeds , changes and dies , except the sense of misery in my bursting heart .
it was he who first studied scientifically the vast collection of relics which his mad grandfather had brought from Africa , and who made the family name as celebrated in ethnology as in exploration .
&quot; I am anxious to oblige you in any way , &quot; I replied ; &quot; but do you mean to say that this infernal beetle has any connection with your expedition into the hills ? &quot; &quot; it has . &quot; &quot; then , Legrand , I can become a party to no such absurd proceeding . &quot;
but now each seemed fearful lest the fatal moment should pass , while the choice was yet undecided .
the furniture was very plain .
rapidly and gloriously the hours flew by and the deep midnight came .
aroused by the pain , and burning with indignation , I burst , at a single effort , the fastenings and the bandage .
the gates were open , and I hastened to my father &apos;s house .
they feared it might be unpleasant work making the Terrible Old Man loquacious concerning his hoarded gold and silver , for aged sea captains are notably stubborn and perverse .
it was when he turned on the feeble electric light that the shock came .
he is cool cool as a cucumber .
what , in its chrysalis condition of principle , affronted their demure reason , never fails , in its maturity of accomplishment , to extort admiration from their instinct of beauty .
she glided into a recess somewhat obscured , and leaning against an ornamental column there placed , tried to recover herself .
I was ready to quit you all , my beloved and gifted companions , and to live only with him , for him .
the greater part of them were in a state of evident eruption , and gave me fearfully to understand their fury and their power , by the repeated thunders of the miscalled meteoric stones , which now rushed upward by the balloon with a frequency more and more appalling .
he is , in truth , a very strange person , believed to have been a captain of East India clipper ships in his day ; so old that no one can remember when he was young , and so taciturn that few know his real name .
at one time I fancied myself in Philadelphia with the stately Dr. Moneypenny , at another in the back parlor of Mr. Blackwood receiving his invaluable instructions .
among other works of art in which he was engaged , he had projected the erection of a national gallery for statues and pictures .
God bless me here was a sight for the honest burghers of Vondervotteimittiss To speak plainly , the fellow had , in spite of his grinning , an audacious and sinister kind of face ; and as he curvetted right into the village , the old stumpy appearance of his pumps excited no little suspicion ; and many a burgher who beheld him that day would have given a trifle for a peep beneath the white cambric handkerchief which hung so obtrusively from the pocket of his swallow tailed coat .
before she saw what he was doing he had the chain of the crucifix twisted about her neck , and a moment later he had tightened it enough to cut off her breath .
Dr. Malkowski , summoned again in haste , told Elwood that both ear drums were ruptured , as if by the impact of some stupendous sound intense beyond all human conception or endurance .
I wish you also to look at the brutal ferocity of these deeds .
but Angelo Ricci and Joe Czanek and Manuel Silva were not of Kingsport blood ; they were of that new and heterogeneous alien stock which lies outside the charmed circle of New England life and traditions , and they saw in the Terrible Old Man merely a tottering , almost helpless greybeard , who could not walk without the aid of his knotted cane , and whose thin , weak hands shook pitifully .
were these indeed the voices of my pursuers ?
outside , across the putrid moat and under the dark mute trees , I would often lie and dream for hours about what I read in the books ; and would longingly picture myself amidst gay crowds in the sunny world beyond the endless forest .
I know only that there must have been something very singular involved , since we came at length to marvel why we did not grow old .
he was in a detestably childish state , and babbled of some illusion of dead bodies drifting past the undersea portholes ; bodies which looked at him intensely , and which he recognised in spite of bloating as having seen dying during some of our victorious German exploits .
&quot; you behold , Sir , &quot; my host began , &quot; a man of very eccentrical habits , for whose costume no apology need be offered to one with your wit and inclinations .
he had been seen with the girl .
once before , it appears , Professor Angell had seen the hellish outlines of the nameless monstrosity , puzzled over the unknown hieroglyphics , and heard the ominous syllables which can be rendered only as &quot; Cthulhu &quot; ; and all this in so stirring and horrible a connexion that it is small wonder he pursued young Wilcox with queries and demands for data .
I eagerly hope that you will confirm this intelligence soon in your own handwriting .
how very happy were they that night How full even to bursting was their sense of joy CHAPTER VII .
indeed , lead him where I would , this was a point to which he invariably came back .
the only circumstance that disturbed our peace , was the health of Adrian .
and because imagination might suggest a conjectural source in the world of non visible beings , the huddled crowd at the mountain &apos;s base huddled still closer , and winced as if in expectation of a blow .
it was then , however , that the Prince Prospero , maddening with rage and the shame of his own momentary cowardice , rushed hurriedly through the six chambers , while none followed him on account of a deadly terror that had seized upon all .
thus are my hopes blasted by cowardice and indecision ; I come back ignorant and disappointed .
it was like its father and most of it has gone back to him in some vague realm or dimension outside our material universe ; some vague abyss out of which only the most accursed rites of human blasphemy could ever have called him for a moment on the hills . &quot;
her hair of a shining raven black , and curiously braided ; her eyes were dark , but gentle , although animated ; her features of a regular proportion , and her complexion wondrously fair , each cheek tinged with a lovely pink .
I hardly know whether this apology is necessary .
wasn &apos;t that a nasty laugh he gave you ?
no sooner did that idea cross my imagination , than I became convinced of its truth ; my teeth chattered , and I was forced to lean against a tree for support .
let me hurry to a conclusion .
Theologists with an earnestness fear enkindled , dwelt upon the biblical prophecies , and expounded them to the people with a directness and simplicity of which no previous instance had been known .
I spoke of myself ; of myself , of myself , of myself ; of Nosology , of my pamphlet , and of myself .
alas Even then my heart was almost broken .
I tried to stifle these sensations ; I thought that as I could not sympathize with him , I had no right to withhold from him the small portion of happiness which was yet in my power to bestow .
the extensive enclosure was irregular in form , having many capacious recesses .
the ancient spires and roofs of decaying Innsmouth gleamed lovely and ethereal in the magic yellow moonlight , and I thought of how they must have looked in the old days before the shadow fell .
alas , I feel how much even of incipient madness might have been discovered in the gorgeous and fantastic draperies , in the solemn carvings of Egypt , in the wild cornices and furniture , in the Bedlam patterns of the carpets of tufted gold I had become a bounden slave in the trammels of opium , and my labors and my orders had taken a coloring from my dreams .
if there are any ghosts here , they &apos;re the tame ghosts of a salt marsh and a shallow cove ; and I want human ghosts the ghosts of beings highly organised enough to have looked on hell and known the meaning of what they saw .
I know not how it is , but in scrutinizing her strange model and singular cast of spars , her huge size and overgrown suits of canvas , her severely simple bow and antiquated stern , there will occasionally flash across my mind a sensation of familiar things , and there is always mixed up with such indistinct shadows of recollection , an unaccountable memory of old foreign chronicles and ages long ago .
families late devoted to exalting and refined pursuits , rich , blooming , and young , with diminished numbers and care fraught hearts , huddled over a fire , grown selfish and grovelling through suffering .
eternities seemed to elapse , and the nauseous fishy odour of my environment seemed to mount suddenly and spectacularly .
all these articles , with the exception of the ballast , and a few trifles , were suspended from the hoop overhead .
presently Ernest came , and enquired if we had seen his brother ; he said , that he had been playing with him , that William had run away to hide himself , and that he vainly sought for him , and afterwards waited for a long time , but that he did not return .
&quot; these thoughts calmed me , and in the afternoon I sank into a profound sleep ; but the fever of my blood did not allow me to be visited by peaceful dreams .
as I said this I suddenly beheld the figure of a man , at some distance , advancing towards me with superhuman speed .
shortly afterward , I resumed my tour around the prison , and with much toil came at last upon the fragment of the serge .
indescribable shapes both alive and otherwise were mixed in disgusting disarray , and close to every known thing were whole worlds of alien , unknown entities .
beyond St. Eustache , and perhaps Beauvais , we find no recognized , no open , no honorable suitors of Marie .
here let us conceal ourselves in the arch of this aqueduct , and I will inform you presently of the origin of the commotion .
his wit was not more conspicuous than the overflowing goodness of his heart , which he poured in such full measure on his friends , as to leave , alas small remnant for himself . &quot;
with this occupation she gave up almost every other ; and her mind preyed upon itself almost to madness .
such was the tale sent us from Asia , from the eastern extremity of Europe , and from Africa as far west as the Golden coast .
the difficulties were increased by a fresh breeze which began to blow , whistling among the shrowds , dashing the sails this way and that , and rending them with horrid split , and such whir as may have visited the dreams of Milton , when he imagined the winnowing of the arch fiend &apos;s van like wings , which encreased the uproar of wild chaos .
the surgeon gave him a composing draught and ordered us to leave him undisturbed .
I looked upon them as superior beings who would be the arbiters of my future destiny .
her carriage was closed ; and , when we rested , she sat leaning her pale cheek on her white cold hand , with eyes fixed on the ground , indulging thoughts which refused communication or sympathy .
on one of its surfaces was a marble slab with only think of it an inscription a legible inscription .
then they donned masks and knocked politely at the weather stained oaken door .
in one spot you view rugged hills , ruined castles overlooking tremendous precipices , with the dark Rhine rushing beneath ; and on the sudden turn of a promontory , flourishing vineyards with green sloping banks and a meandering river and populous towns occupy the scene .
their art was the art that convinced when we saw the pictures we saw the daemons themselves and were afraid of them .
now I know that its real object was to keep from my ears the idle tales of the dread curse upon our line , that were nightly told and magnified by the simple tenantry as they conversed in hushed accents in the glow of their cottage hearths .
for reasons which we shall not specify , but which to many readers will appear obvious , we have taken the liberty of here omitting , from the MSS .
he bore her frantically to his lodgings in the village .
this was strange and unexpected intelligence ; what could it mean ?
I returned to Windsor ; my brow was clouded , my heart heavy ; I entered the Little Park , as was my custom , at the Frogmore gate , on my way to the Castle .
he not only believes , but positively knows , that such and such apparently arbitrary arrangements of matter , or form , constitute , and alone constitute , the true Beauty .
my hair is black and curling .
we were now taught how , in the beginning of the world , mankind clothed their enemies in impossible attributes and how details proceeding from mouth to mouth , might , like Virgil &apos;s ever growing rumour , reach the heavens with her brow , and clasp Hesperus and Lucifer with her outstretched hands .
some portions of it are referable to Professor Tarr , of whom you have , necessarily , heard ; and , again , there are modifications in my plan which I am happy to acknowledge as belonging of right to the celebrated Fether , with whom , if I mistake not , you have the honor of an intimate acquaintance . &quot;
there was something , as it were , remarkable yes , remarkable , although this is but a feeble term to express my full meaning about the entire individuality of the personage in question .
never did he knock together flimsier and ungainlier caskets , or disregard more flagrantly the needs of the rusty lock on the tomb door which he slammed open and shut with such nonchalant abandon .
was one of the first to ascend the stairs .
and now again the music swells , and the dreams live , and writhe to and fro more merrily than ever , taking hue from the many tinted windows through which stream the rays from the tripods .
it goes through Innsmouth you may have heard about that and so the people don &apos;t like it .
but how fearful , in that case , the proximity of the steel The result of the slightest struggle how deadly Was it likely , moreover , that the minions of the torturer had not foreseen and provided for this possibility Was it probable that the bandage crossed my bosom in the track of the pendulum ?
he bounded over the crevices in the ice , among which I had walked with caution ; his stature , also , as he approached , seemed to exceed that of man .
the roofs of the two larger were very steep sweeping down from the ridge beam with a long concave curve , and extending at least four feet beyond the walls in front , so as to form the roofs of two piazzas .
I would seek the mountain eagle &apos;s eirie , and live years suspended in some inaccessible recess of a sea bounding cliff no labour too great , no scheme too wild , if it promised life to them .
still I would penetrate their misty veil and seek them in their cloudy retreats .
I am enabled , too , plainly to trace this effect to the mesmeric influence .
laden with spoil , she hastened to return , and lost her way .
alas Victor , when falsehood can look so like the truth , who can assure themselves of certain happiness ?
in the centre yawned the circular pit from whose jaws I had escaped ; but it was the only one in the dungeon .
even in Greece the tale of the sun of darkness encreased the fears and despair of the dying multitude .
I began to divine that Idris was not the object of our journey , but that I was brought to witness the scene that was to decide the fate of Raymond and of Perdita .
besides , after the correspondence which had passed between us , what act of mere informality could I commit , within bounds , that ought to be regarded as indecorous by Madame Lalande ?
I bore her from the near neighbourhood of the dead ; wrapt in cloaks , I placed her beneath a tree .
nature herself seemed to afford me corroboration of these ideas .
&quot; divine infoliations of the spirit of beauty , &quot; she exclaimed , &quot; Ye droop not , neither do ye mourn ; the despair that clasps my heart , has not spread contagion over you Why am I not a partner of your insensibility , a sharer in your calm &quot; She paused .
the walk through the town had been long , and by the time the traveller paused at our cottage to ask the way to the factories his heart had become greatly overtaxed .
the treasure which she possessed in the affections of Raymond , was more necessary to her being , than the life blood that animated her veins more truly than Othello she might say , To be once in doubt , Is once to be resolved .
look down into the abysmal distances attempt to force the gaze down the multitudinous vistas of the stars , as we sweep slowly through them thus and thus and thus Even the spiritual vision , is it not at all points arrested by the continuous golden walls of the universe ?
I ordered it to be repaired , bought some furniture , and took possession , an incident which would doubtless have occasioned some surprise had not all the senses of the cottagers been benumbed by want and squalid poverty .
her desires had been blasted , her schemes overthrown .
bending closely over him , I at length drank in the hideous import of his words .
even now I can hardly describe what I saw , though it was clearly enough a sort of tiara , as the description had said .
it oppressed my limbs with the oppression of some dull weight , and was palpable .
the head of the deceased , when seen by witness , was entirely separated from the body , and was also greatly shattered .
he divests himself of his clothes .
remember , I am not recording the vision of a madman .
to our extreme surprise , when it was moved that we should resolve ourselves into a committee for the election of the Lord Protector , the member who had nominated Ryland , rose and informed us that this candidate had resigned his pretensions .
the motion was lost ; Ryland withdrew in rage and despair ; and Raymond , gay and exulting , retired to dream of his future kingdom .
once at the window , the man drew apart the yellow silk curtains and directed my stare into the blackness outside .
as this awful conviction forced itself , thus , into the innermost chambers of my soul , I once again struggled to cry aloud .
were these these the lineaments of William Wilson ?
my sufferings were augmented also by the oppressive sense of the injustice and ingratitude of their infliction .
her own maternal feelings were so ardent , that she imagined her parent must now , in this waste world , have lost pride and harshness , and would receive with delight her filial attentions .
strange to say however , no instance had yet occurred , where either candidate had had recourse to this expedient ; in consequence the law had become obsolete , nor had been referred to by any of us in our discussions .
those who found the body noted a trail of blood leading to the receiving tomb , where a small pool of red lay on the concrete just outside the gate .
in a few moments a small motor coach of extreme decrepitude and dirty grey colour rattled down State Street , made a turn , and drew up at the curb beside me .
I saw that in his heart he despised those dedicated to any but worldly idols .
here a precipitous ledge of granite arose to a height of some ninety feet ; and , as I have mentioned , the valley at this point was not more than fifty feet wide ; but as the visiter proceeded southwardly from the cliff , he found on his right hand and on his left , declivities at once less high , less precipitous , and less rocky .
it was the &quot; Goosetherumfoodle &quot; that said : &quot; a wretched poetaster , who signs himself &apos; Oppodeldoc , &apos; is silly enough to fancy that we will print and pay for a medley of incoherent and ungrammatical bombast which he has transmitted to us , and which commences with the following most intelligible line : &apos; hail , Holy light offspring of Heaven , first born.&apos;
I had not then discovered the remarkable fact that we were of the same age ; but I saw that we were of the same height , and I perceived that we were even singularly alike in general contour of person and outline of feature .
I seemed for an instant to behold a patch of strange night sky filled with shining , revolving spheres , and as it receded I saw that the glowing suns formed a constellation or galaxy of settled shape ; this shape being the distorted face of Crawford Tillinghast .
everywhere was variety in uniformity .
they decided , however , that it was not worth their while to hew open and disinfect the long sealed spaces ; for the foetor would soon be over , and the locality was not one which encouraged fastidious standards .
after the Frankish siege of Milan , Ibidus was chosen to accompany the learned Bishop Datius to Greece , and resided with him at Corinth in the year .
Perdita tried to read his countenance , which he angrily averted .
if you do not already know it , you will soon learn the deep hate my mother bears to the name Verney .
for some seconds I dared not open them while I expected instant destruction , and wondered that I was not already in my death struggles with the water .
three months passed away in this delightful intercourse , when my aunt fell ill .
after having formed this determination and having spent some months in successfully collecting and arranging my materials , I began .
&quot; Hillo hillo , there &quot; said a gruff voice , in reply .
she would look at him at a distance with the same rapture , O , far more exuberant rapture that one might feel , who after the perils of a tempest , should find himself in the desired port ; she would hasten towards him , to feel more certain in his arms , the reality of her bliss .
she alluded to the topic of age .
we saw many ruined castles standing on the edges of precipices , surrounded by black woods , high and inaccessible .
my ancestors have also resided therein time out of mind they , as well as myself , steadily following the respectable and indeed lucrative profession of mending of bellows .
such return she felt to be impossible ; and while she believed it to be thus , and with anguish regretted that so it should be , she continued angry and impatient with him , who occasioned her misery .
banners yellow , glorious , golden , On its roof did float and flow ; This all this was in the olden Time long ago And every gentle air that dallied , In that sweet day , along the ramparts plumed and pallid , A winged odor went away .
the words were at first indistinguishable , and then with a tremendous start I recognised something about them which filled me with icy fear till I recalled the breadth of my uncle &apos;s education and the interminable translations he had made from anthropological and antiquarian articles in the Revue des deux Mondes .
notwithstanding what some Detractors have said of Mr. Pope &apos;s petty jealousy , he gave the Verses of his new rival no small praise ; and having learnt thro &apos; Mr. Richardson who the t was , told me &apos; that Mr. Johnson wou &apos;d soon be deterré.&apos;
accordingly I resolved in my mind the best course to pursue ; whom to select for my confidences , and how to track down the thing which had obliterated two men and cast a nightmare shadow .
the antique volume which I had taken up was the &quot; mad Trist &quot; of Sir Launcelot Canning ; but I had called it a favorite of Usher &apos;s more in sad jest than in earnest ; for , in truth , there is little in its uncouth and unimaginative prolixity which could have had interest for the lofty and spiritual ideality of my friend .
now the notoriety of the Automaton , and the great curiosity it has every where excited , are owing more especially to the prevalent opinion that it is a pure machine , than to any other circumstance .
I think it was the dark rumour and legendry , the tales of one buried for five centuries , who had himself been a Ghoul in his time and had stolen a potent thing from a mighty sepulchre .
the tranquillity which I now enjoyed did not endure .
the Bolton Worsted Mills are the largest in the Miskatonic Valley , and their polyglot employees are never popular as patients with the local physicians .
there is even much doubt as to where they begin ; for at times I feel appalling vistas of years stretching behind me , while at other times it seems as if the present moment were an isolated point in a grey , formless infinity .
I remembered my pursuit for intelligence concerning Adrian ; and , knowing that my time would be fully occupied , I excused myself .
I looked around triumphantly , and said to myself &quot; Here at least , then , my labor has not been in vain . &quot;
could not be sure whether it was the voice of a man or of a woman .
the barren old trees in the yard have begun to bear small , sweet apples , and last year the birds nested in their gnarled boughs .
Adrian felt that he made a part of a great whole .
this is a well conceived custom , giving the party at least a choice of light or shade , and one which our friends over the water could not do better than immediately adopt .
but I felt that I had no right to share their intercourse .
come , we will go back ere it is too late .
soon afterward , the whole dark limb became illuminated .
nothing was blurred , distorted , or conventionalised ; outlines were sharp and life like , and details were almost painfully defined .
it was a noble , even a handsome , elderly countenance ; and bore the marks of a Lineage and refinement unusual for the age and place .
the lassitude of his earlier ill days gave place to a return of his fiery purpose , so that he seemed about to hurl defiance at the death daemon even as that ancient enemy seized him .
in the rabid desire to say something easily , I scarcely knew what I uttered at all .
toward night the limits of my horizon very suddenly and materially increased , owing undoubtedly to the earth &apos;s form being that of an oblate spheroid , and my arriving above the flattened regions in the vicinity of the arctic circle .
I looked at him in surprise .
I seem perhaps to have dashed too suddenly into the description , but thus suddenly did it happen .
I thought it best , however , to humor his fancy , at least for the present , or until I could adopt some more energetic measures with a chance of success .
no ; it was not the amount but the character of the art which caused me to take a seat on one of the blossomy stones and gaze up and down this fairy like avenue for half an hour or more in bewildered admiration .
t . &quot; appended to each of the critiques .
this latter argument seemed finally to soften the rigor of her determination .
it was about dusk , one evening during the supreme madness of the Carnival season , that I encountered my friend .
I will lie here , and cling here , till rain , and hail , and lightning and storm , ruining on me , make me one in substance with them below . &quot;
a child , slipping from the arms of its own mother , had fallen from an upper window of the lofty structure into the deep and dim canal .
I had thoroughly searched the ruin before , hence knew my plan well ; choosing as the seat of my vigil the old room of Jan Martense , whose murder looms so great in the rural legends .
he had been evidently thrown from his horse by some falling ruin , which had crushed his head , and defaced his whole person .
the explosion in the engine room at P.M. was wholly a surprise .
still do I feel her graceful form press against my full fraught heart still does sight , and pulse , and breath sicken and fail , at the remembrance of that first kiss .
thus sad and disarranged were the thoughts of my poor sister , when she became assured of the infidelity of Raymond .
then he heard Barzai &apos;s voice grow shriller and louder : &quot; the mists are very thin , and the moon casts shadows on the slope ; the voices of earth &apos;s gods are high and wild , and they fear the coming of Barzai the Wise , who is greater than they . . . .
we affected to treat each individual as if for some ordinary physical disorder , and the word &apos; lunacy &apos; was never employed .
the one who appeared to be the elder , and whom his companion addressed by the characteristic appellation of &quot; Legs , &quot; was at the same time much the taller of the two .
he passes to and fro , at regular intervals , within a confined periphery , abounding in individuals who are led to observation of his person through interest in the kindred nature of his occupation with their own .
those efforts had been in vain , since Armitage had issued warnings of the keenest intensity to all librarians having charge of the dreaded volume .
this I couldn &apos;t stand so we quarrelled and parted .
with wild and terrific exclamations did the lost , dying Evadne for it was she recognize the language of her lover ; pain and fever from her wound had deranged her intellects , while her piteous cries and feeble efforts to escape , penetrated me with compassion .
and yet its timbre was not the most awful thing about it .
our way was short , and she said little ; except interrupted ejaculations of reproach that he had left her , exclamations on the unkindness of some of his friends , and hope that she would find him alive .
several characters obviously represented marine things which are unknown to the modern world , but whose decomposing forms I had observed on the ocean risen plain .
then again he distracted my thoughts from my sorrow by comparing it with his despair when he lost my mother .
upon the whole , whether happily or unhappily , he was thrown back , in very great measure , upon self .
he was not allowed to finish this speech in tranquillity .
his looks were wild with terror , and he spoke to me in a voice tremulous , husky , and very low .
by the quantity of provision which I had consumed , I should guess that I had passed three weeks in this journey ; and the continual protraction of hope , returning back upon the heart , often wrung bitter drops of despondency and grief from my eyes .
I hurled after the scoundrel these vehement words of Demosthenes Andrew O &apos;Phlegethon , you really make haste to fly , and then turned to the darling of my heart , to the one eyed the shaggy haired Diana .
notwithstanding the hazardous object of our journey , it was full of romantic interest , as we passed through the vallies , and over the hills , of this divine country .
I felt the greatest eagerness to hear the promised narrative , partly from curiosity and partly from a strong desire to ameliorate his fate if it were in my power .
but in the expression of the countenance , which was beaming all over with smiles , there still lurked incomprehensible anomaly that fitful stain of melancholy which will ever be found inseparable from the perfection of the beautiful .
its decorations were rich , yet tattered and antique .
he directed my attention to some object against the wall .
hey ? haow &apos;d ye like to hear the haowlin &apos; night arter night from the churches an &apos; Order o &apos; Dagon Hall , an &apos; know what &apos;s doin &apos; part o &apos; the haowlin &apos; ?
she was buried not in a vault , but in an ordinary grave in the village of her nativity .
in company with this sprightly and clever Greek girl , the Countess would relax from her usual state .
in this unnerved in this pitiable condition I feel that the period will sooner or later arrive when I must abandon life and reason together , in some struggle with the grim phantasm , fear . &quot;
he was a scoundrel , and I don &apos;t blame you for giving him a cast aside coffin , but you always did go too damned far Well enough to skimp on the thing some way , but you knew what a little man old Fenner was .
but why should I dwell upon the incidents that followed this last overwhelming event ?
in the streets were spears of long grass , and the window panes on either side were either broken or filmily staring .
when I first sought it , it was the love of virtue , the feelings of happiness and affection with which my whole being overflowed , that I wished to be participated .
but it is in matters beyond the limits of mere rule that the skill of the analyst is evinced .
&quot; I may say an excellently well constructed house .
across a covered bridge one sees a small village huddled between the stream and the vertical slope of Round Mountain , and wonders at the cluster of rotting gambrel roofs bespeaking an earlier architectural period than that of the neighbouring region .
you cannot take up a common newspaper in which you shall not see some allusion to the immortal Thingum Bob .
consoling myself with this reflection , I was mentally repeating some passages of the &quot; Omnipresence of the Deity , &quot; as is my custom before resigning myself to sleep , when two cats , of a greedy and vituperative turn , entering at a hole in the wall , leaped up with a flourish a la Catalani , and alighting opposite one another on my visage , betook themselves to indecorous contention for the paltry consideration of my nose .
yet we laughed and were merry in our proper way which was hysterical ; and sang the songs of Anacreon which are madness ; and drank deeply although the purple wine reminded us of blood .
all this is now the fitter for my purpose .
I fixed myself on a wide solitude .
it is easily understood that what might improve a closely scrutinized detail , may at the same time injure a general or more distantly observed effect .
be this as it may , I now began to feel the inspiration of a burning hope , and at length nurtured in my secret thoughts a stern and desperate resolution that I would submit no longer to be enslaved .
long winded , statistical , and drearily genealogical as some of the matter was , there ran through it a continuous thread of brooding , tenacious horror and preternatural malevolence which impressed me even more than it had impressed the good doctor .
